Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize a wonderful 
organization in my district that this year is celebrating its 20th 
Anniversary, the Community Resource Center located in Mamaroneck, New 
York.
  The mission of CRC is today more important than ever. Formerly the 
Hispanic Resource Center, it is a 501(c)(3) community-based 
organization founded in 1998 to promote the cultural, economic, 
educational and professional integration of immigrants to the already 
established larger community. It is also dedicated to advocating for 
those in need. CRC aims to provide the tools to prepare new immigrant 
families to become self-sufficient and active members of the community.
  Over its 20 years in existence, CRC has grown from a community 
initiative designed and acting as a clearinghouse of information and 
referral services, to an organization that provides comprehensive 
direct client services and programs. The Center provides a host of 
educational programs, case management and referral services and 
advocate for immigrants and low-income families in need. In the past 
year, the Center served nearly 4,000 adults, youth, and children in 
three primary areas: Case management and social services; Educational 
programs and workshops; and Worker Center-job placement for men and 
women seeking employment. The Center understands that the Westchester 
community is strengthened by cultural and economic diversity, and the 
work they do in support of that cannot be overstated.
  Mr. Speaker, the America I know welcomes all immigrants and isn't 
afraid to lend a helping hand to those in need. I am proud to represent 
an organization like Community Resource Center that provides that 
loving hand every single day. Congratulations to the entire CRC team on 
20 wonderful years serving the community, and here's to many more.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor for me to recognize a dear 
friend, Jerry Friedman, who this year is celebrating his remarkable 
90th birthday in addition to his 63rd wedding anniversary to his 
wonderful wife, Lillian.
  Lillian and Jerry were married in the Bronx on December 10th, 1955. 
Together they have two children, Lynn and Stuart, who were both born 
while the couple lived in Brooklyn, and now 2 grandchildren, Sophie and 
Ben. In 1971, the Friedman family moved to Co-op City, which is where 
Pat and I met them as members of the Co-op City Democratic Club. We 
have been close ever since.
  Jerry was a very active member on the Riverbay Board for many years, 
and at one point served as Vice President for three terms. He was also 
instrumental in the rent strike, acting as an advocate for residents. 
When I first ran for State Assembly, Jerry and Lillian were two of my 
earliest supporters. I'll never forget the faith they placed in me.
  Outside of his activism, Jerry is a wonderful amateur photographer 
whose pictures have hung in the Riverdale Y and other local spots. He 
was also very active in the Boy Scouts and over the years rose to their 
highest office.
  In addition, Jerry served on the Board of Visitors at Bronx 
Psychiatric Center, which provides a continuum of inpatient, outpatient 
and related psychiatric services with inpatient hospitalization at the 
main campus.
  Mr. Speaker, I have long cherished my friendship with Jerry Friedman 
and I count myself incredibly fortunate to have known him for so many 
years. He is a terrific individual who has done so much to help 
strengthen our community here in the Bronx, and I am honored to be able 
to recognize him on this wonderful occasion. Congratulations to Jerry 
on an incredible 90 years.
                        


Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I have the opportunity to 
inform colleagues that Mr. Matthew Pinkus, our Committee senior policy 
adviser and parliamentarian to House Administration Committee 
Democrats, retired recently, concluding a congressional staff career 
which began as an intern in 1971 and included 19 years on our 
committee, the longest of the more than twenty different congressional 
professional positions he had held during that period, including time 
as chief legislative assistant to Rep. Michael Barnes (D) of Maryland 
for the congressman's entire tenure in the House.
  Whether working in House leadership, on five different congressional 
committees and in Members' offices, Matt excelled in a huge variety of 
tasks. A summer college job as a congressional intern in the House for 
Rep. Benjamin Rosenthal of New York while attending Brandeis University 
prompted Matt to leave graduate school at U.C. Berkeley after receiving 
an M.A. in political science and work in Washington full time, first at 
Congressional Quarterly, then for a month in the Senate, and then the 
remaining decades in the House. He said of that path, ``I decided very 
early on that, as much as possible, I would do things the way I wanted 
and try to have fun. Usually, that worked.''
  Matt had an eclectic career path since his first full-time job here 
in 1976, when he left a political reporting job at Congressional 
Quarterly. He often chose to seek work in specific subject areas which 
interested him, rather than follow the common alternate staff career 
path of attaching himself to one or two members and remaining in place. 
He was first appointed to the Committee on House Administration 
Democratic staff in 1991 by Rep. Sam Gejdenson of Connecticut to work 
on campaign finance reform, and then moved on to the Brookings 
Institution as a guest scholar on their ``Renewing Congress'' project 
before returning to the House in 1995 to work on oversight of the 
executive branch at the Committee on Government Reform. Between Hill 
jobs in the 1990s, Matt had finished writing a book for Congressional 
Quarterly in 1998, How Congress Works, and was ready to once again 
return to the House. Then-House Administration Ranking Member Gejdenson 
asked him to work on election contests, and he remained here to work 
sequentially for Ranking Members Hoyer, Larson and Chairwoman 
Millender-McDonald.
  Matt was probably best known on the Hill as one of the top experts on 
rules and process, serving on the Rules Committee staff and twice on 
the Subcommittee on Rules of the House, including as subcommittee staff 
director. His most distinctive job was as parliamentarian of the House 
Democratic Caucus for six years, which recognized and utilized his vast 
knowledge of the Caucus rules. It was a position created especially for 
him and lasted through the service of Chairmen Robert Menendez, Jim 
Clyburn, Rahm Emanuel and John Larson--all while he also worked 
simultaneously on the House Administration Committee. He was known for 
always being carefully prepared, totally candid, and was not 
intimidated by Members.
  Matt was always our committee parliamentarian, managed floor 
operations, and worked on elections legislation, congressional 
continuity issues, and the Smithsonian Institution. He drafted and 
edited views on committee reports and other publications, and proofed 
specialized historical books published by the House. He would discuss 
parliamentary strategy in the morning and then make an oversight visit 
to the National Zoo to learn about artificial insemination of Giant 
Pandas in the afternoon, something made possible by CHA's very eclectic 
jurisdiction.
  Matt sat behind me for years on the Committee on House Administration 
dais when I was a junior member and helped provide advice on hearings 
and markups for Members but when I suddenly became chairman in 2007 
following the death of Chairwoman Millender-McDonald, he was there with 
an intricately drafted manager's parliamentary script for my very long 
first markup. This was a totally new role for me. When I went off 
script at some points and noticed Matt's look of concern, after 
avoiding disaster, I told him that
while I might sometimes deviate from his text, he should just keep 
right on doing what he does.
  Matt says he plans to travel, look for opportunities to write, and 
again take up playing chess, which he learned at the age of four from 
his father, AI, who was one of America's leading players in the mid-
20th century.
                          



Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate one of the great 
religious institutions in my district, the Lincoln Park Jewish Center 
located in Yonkers. This year, the Center is celebrating its remarkable 
80th Anniversary and I would like to take the opportunity to recognize 
that feat in Congress.
  Lincoln Park Jewish Center is an inclusive, modern Orthodox Jewish 
congregation that strives to create spiritual growth through prayer, 
acceptance, community and fellowship. To achieve this goal, the 
synagogue supports the following: HaMakom Tefilah, a place to increase 
spirituality with heartfelt prayer by encouraging personal growth 
through participation, self-reflection, and spontaneity; HaMakom Ahavat 
Chinam, unconditional love and acceptance, regardless of background or 
current level of observance; HaMakom Limud Torah, a place to search and 
study Torah leading to a more fulfilling Jewish life; and HaMakom 
Simcha, a place to enjoy and celebrate.
  The congregation at Lincoln Park Jewish Center is currently led by 
Rabbi Levi Welton, who was ordained by the prestigious Machon Ariel 
Institute of Jerusalem in 2005 and has since then served congregations 
in Australia, San Francisco, and, of course, Yonkers New York. His 
pastoral experiences include young professional development, inter-
faith work, community building and multimedia production. Additionally, 
Rabbi Welton is the Founder of the Torah Values Network, a staff writer 
for New York Jewish Life Magazine, and a Captain in the United States 
Air Force.
  The Lincoln Park Jewish Center has provided incredible support to its 
congregants and the community for 80 years now. Here's to 80 more. 
Congratulations to Rabbi Welton and the entire Lincoln Park Jewish 
Center family on this great occasion.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a dedicated public 
servant in the Yonkers community, Dr. Andrea Coddett, who this year has 
been named ``Woman of the Year 2018'' by the Luther V. Garrison Sr. 
Masonic Foundation Inc.
  Dr. Coddett is the Deputy Superintendent for the Yonkers Public 
Schools. In her role, she oversees the Division of Teaching and 
Learning, ensuring that all curriculum is aligned to the New York State 
Learning Standards and that all instruction is aligned to 21st Century 
learning skills, so students are prepared for college and or careers. 
As the Chairperson of the Yonkers Basics Advisory Board, Dr. Coddett 
leads a team of approximately 40 volunteer members from various 
community sectors charged with saturating the community with five 
research-based interactive pillars proven effective in redressing 
cognitive and social-emotional inequities due to poverty.
  Dr. Coddett began her career in education as a Special Education 
teacher after which she became a building-level Math Specialist. In her 
administrative career, Dr. Coddett has worked as a District Math 
Specialist PreK-12, an Early Childhood Principal, a K-5 principal, a 
Director of Secondary Special Education and an Assistant Superintendent 
for Instruction K-12.
  Dr. Coddett is a graduate of Fordham University where she earned a 
doctorate in Executive Leadership. She holds Masters Degrees in 
Curriculum and Instruction with a Reading specialization and 
Educational Administration from Pace University and a Bachelor degree 
in Psychology from Mercy College. Dr. Coddett also holds administrative 
certifications in School District Administration and School Building 
Administration and Supervision, as well as teaching certifications in 
Special Education, birth through 21, and General Education, N-6. Dr. 
Coddett continues to influence school transformation and policy 
decisions by serving on Carnegie Foundation's national Improvement 
Leadership Education and Development (iLEAD) steering committee with 
university and school-based educators committed to integrating 
improvement science principles into leadership development and 
educational practice.
  Having lived in and been educated in four different countries on 
three different continents, Dr. Coddett considers herself a global 
citizen. It is her contention that as an educational leader, she is one 
of the gate-keepers of tomorrow and believes that each and every child 
deserves an excellent education. As a former classroom teacher myself, 
I happen to agree wholeheartedly. Dr. Coddett has achieved a great deal 
and is well deserving of this honor. Congratulations to her on 
receiving this wonderful recognition.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the largest co-
operative housing development in the nation and a place that holds a 
particularly meaningful place in my heart, Co-op City in the Bronx. 
This year, Co-op City celebrates its 50th Anniversary and as such 
stands as one of the great housing successes in our country's history.
  Co-op City is a New York State Mitchell-Lama housing cooperative with 
apartments in high-rise and townhouse buildings. There are three 
shopping centers on Co-op City property, 8 parking garages, 
professional offices and a complete educational park.
  Construction of Co-op City began in 1966 on a site that was formerly 
home to an amusement park at which I used to work as a young man called 
``Freedomland.'' Residents began moving into the complex in 1968, and 
construction was completed in 1973. Co-op City is divided into five 
sections, with each section denoted by a letter of the alphabet. Co-op 
City is managed by the Riverbay Corporation and is led by a Board of 15 
residents, each elected to three-year terms.
  Co-op City is a special place, not just to me, but to the thousands 
of people who have had the privilege of calling it home over the years. 
I myself am a former Co-op City resident, and my family and I lived 
there for many years. I have so many fond memories from my time there; 
from starting a family to beginning my career in public service, I can 
trace so many wonderful moments and life-events back to my Co-op City 
days. I can also trace so many wonderful friendships back to Co-op 
City, many I still cherish to this day.
  As fortunate as I was to have lived in Co-op City, I am just as 
fortunate to now represent Co-op City in the halls of Congress. I hope 
that my service can in some way give back to the community that has 
given me so much.
  As a part of the Mitchell-Lama housing program, Co-op City has 
provided quality housing at an affordable rate to generations of New 
Yorkers. As we celebrate its 50th Anniversary, it's important to 
reflect on just how fortunate we are to have such a strong and thriving 
housing development in the Bronx. I'm proud to say I lived in Co-op 
City, and I'm just as proud to still serve Co-op City today as 
Congressman.
  Congratulations to the Riverbay Board, the entire Co-op City 
community, and all the residents who have made the past 50 years in Co-
op City a tremendous success
                          



Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct privilege to honor and 
recognize the accomplishments of a dear friend, a dedicated public 
servant, and an overall wonderful human being, my colleague Congressman 
Joe Crowley. This year, the Ancient Order of Hibernians in the Bronx is 
honoring Joe at their Annual Dinner Dance. They could not have picked a 
more deserving honoree.
  Joe and I go way back, starting with our days together in Albany as 
Members of the New York State Assembly. A native of Woodside, Queens 
and lifelong New Yorker, Joe has served the people of the Bronx and 
Queens in Congress since 1998. Before being elected to Congress, Joe 
received a bachelor's degree from Queens College, ran a successful 
small business for nearly a decade and represented the 30th Assembly 
District in the New York State legislature. Throughout his career in 
public service, Joe has been driven by a desire to protect New York's 
middle class.
  Joe has always been dedicated to making the Bronx-Queens community 
more prosperous and secure. He established the Crime Stoppers program 
in 2002 to support local organizations that are working to reduce crime 
and improve the quality of life in our neighborhoods, and it has 
delivered more than $1 million in federal funding to the Bronx-Queens 
community for graffiti clean-up, after-school programming, and civic 
patrol efforts.
  As Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, the fourth-highest ranking 
position in House Democratic Leadership, Joe's efforts in Congress 
focused on building strong communities, creating jobs, increasing 
access to health care and housing, protecting seniors' hard-earned 
benefits, and opening up educational opportunities for working 
families.
  When not fighting for his constituents, Joe can be found spending 
time with his lovely family--wife Kasey Crowley and their three 
children--or playing with his band.
  Both local and national media have recognized Joe for his effective 
and impressive record of leadership in Congress. The New York Times has 
noted that his peers consider him to be a ``hard working 
representative'' who is ``an impassioned advocate for his district.'' I 
couldn't have said it better myself. Come January I will miss Joe's 
presence in Washington, but I know he will continue to be a powerful 
force for good in the New York City community. Congratulations to Joe 
on this honor and a remarkable career.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, our houses of worship are often the ties that 
bind our communities together. In Rye, few institutions have been as 
successful in strengthening the neighborhood and bringing people 
together as the Community Synagogue of Rye, which this year is 
celebrating its remarkable 70th Anniversary.
  One Sunday in early autumn 1948, 7-year-old Betty Wolder asked her 
parents if she could go to church with her friend Susan who was 
Christian. Her parents explained that since they were Jewish and did 
not belong to Susan's church, she could not attend. Betty continued to 
ask questions and her parents wanted to give her better answers. The 
Wolders contacted the few Jewish people they knew in Rye about forming 
a Jewish religious school, and a sponsoring group of families. The 
response was extraordinarily positive, and the rest is history.
  A beautiful mansion--built in 1903 at 200 Forest Avenue--was 
purchased in June of 1950, and Rabbi Samuel H. Gordon, an experienced, 
widely traveled liberal Rabbi, was hired as the first spiritual leader 
in 1950. From there, Community Synagogue grew and flourished. The 
congregation is now around 500 families and over 300 students from Rye, 
and several communities between Greenwich and White Plains. The 
synagogue has an ambitious education program for both children and 
adults, numerous opportunities to become involved in social action, 
beautiful worship services, and life cycle celebrations. Their 
enthusiastic and active committees help make the synagogue a dynamic 
and caring community, and their work has grown beyond the congregation 
to serve the greater community.
  Community Synagogue of Rye has had an amazing 70 years. 
Congratulations to the leadership and congregation on this occasion.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, the importance of a free and open press 
cannot be overstated, especially in our local communities. I am very 
fortunate to represent a district that is covered by the Irish Echo, an 
outstanding local newspaper, which is led by my friend and one of this 
year's Ancient Order of Hibernians' honorees, Ray O'Hanlon.
  As Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I have had 
the pleasure of working with Ray for many years on a wide variety of 
topics, including Irish-American issues which have always been 
particularly close to my heart.
  Ray is the editor of the New York-published Irish Echo. A native of 
Dublin who worked for
the Irish Press newspaper group before moving to the United States in 
1987, Ray has reported from three continents in a news career spanning 
39 years.
  In addition to his work as a reporter and editor, Ray has been a 
frequent contributor to U.S., Irish, and British media outlets 
reporting on Ireland, Irish-American affairs, and Anglo-Irish 
relations. He has appeared on CBS 60 minutes, ABC World News Tonight, 
and the Lehrer News Hour on PBS. He has also been interviewed on RTE, 
BBC and ITV, both television and radio.
  A prolific writer, Ray's book, ``The New Irish Americans'' (Roberts 
Rinehart, 1998) was the recipient of a Washington Irving Book Award. 
``The South Lawn Plot,'' his first fiction work, was published in 2011 
by Boston-based Gemma Media publishers. Ray is currently working on a 
new book on Irish immigration that will have a particular focus on the 
1965 Immigration Reform and Nationality Act. A graduate of University 
College Dublin, Ray lives with his wife Lisa, a native of Danville, 
Illinois, in Ossining, New York. They have three grown children: Kate, 
Liz and Jack.
  Ray O'Hanlon has accomplished a great deal over a long and 
distinguished career. He is most deserving of this wonderful 
recognition from AOH. Congratulations to Ray and I thank him for all he 
continues to do on behalf of our community.
                          



Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as an elected representative, but 
also as a mother--a mother who is horrified and outraged by the actions 
taken by the Trump Administration to deliberately separate families.
  Like any mother, I love my children and cannot imagine being 
separated from them. But because of the Trump Administration's 
policies, some mothers have no choice.
  Just this week, I have been working to reunite two mothers in my 
community who were prevented from reuniting with their families.
  The first story I want to share is of Maria Mendoza-Sanchez. Maria 
has lived with her family in the East Bay for more than two decades. 
She and her husband Eusebio raised four beautiful children, worked 
hard, and purchased a home in Oakland.
  Maria went to school while raising small children and went on to 
become a nurse at Highland Hospital. She was beloved by her patients 
and her colleagues.
  Maria and Eusebio tried to do the right thing. They paid their taxes 
and came forward to legalize their immigration status. And for years, 
they were on a path to citizenship.
  But like many families, Maria and Eusebio's efforts did not matter to 
the Trump Administration.
  Under President Trump's misguided enforcement priorities, Maria and 
Eusebio were targeted for deportation.
  And last summer--after more than twenty years building a life in our 
community--Maria and Eusebio were torn from their children and deported 
to Mexico.
  But over the last sixteen months, we didn't give up. We kept working 
to reunite Maria with her family--to bring her home.
  Finally, after more than a year of work, we were able to secure an 
H1-B visa for Maria. And this past Sunday, I was honored and overjoyed 
to join Maria as she was reunited with her children.
  But Maria isn't the only mother torn from her children by President 
Trump's immigration policies.
  Also in the news this week was the story of Shaima, whose son 
Abdullah Hassan has been on life support at Children's Hospital 
Oakland, in my district.
  Abdullah is two years old and suffers from a genetic brain condition. 
His mother Shaima, who was born in Yemen, has been barred from 
travelling to the United States to be with her son because of the Trump 
Administration's un-American Muslim ban.
  Abdullah doesn't have much time left--and Shaima feared that she 
would not be able to say goodbye to her young son.
  Mr. Speaker--is this really who we are? A country that denies mothers 
safe passage to be with their dying children?
  No family should ever have to endure this.
  And in the face of such unimaginable cruelty, I am proud to say that 
our community stepped up. I want to thank everyone who showed up, who 
protested and organized and petitioned for this outcome.
  Because of your advocacy, the State Department granted a visa waiver 
to Shaima so she can be with her son. She will be able to be with her 
son, to hug him and to say goodbye.
  But we know that there are many other people like Maria and Shaima 
who remain separated from their families.
  When I went down to the border earlier this year, I saw the prison-
like conditions that they were keeping children in.
  There were kids sleeping on concrete floor--with only thin emergency 
blankets to keep them warm.
  And to this very day, there are hundreds of children in HHS custody. 
And Secretary Nielson can't tell us when they will be reunited.
  Let's be clear: this isn't an immigration policy. This is a family 
separation policy.
  Children torn from their mothers, parents deported away from their 
kids. And it's up to Congress to stop it.
  It's past time for us to restore--justice, dignity and common sense 
to this immigration system.
  We need to ensure kids who have lived here their entire lives--like 
Maria's oldest daughter--can make a life in the only country they have 
ever known.
  We need to get this disgraceful, discriminatory travel ban off the 
books, so no loved one has to experience what Shaima went through.
  We need to pass comprehensive immigration reform so that people like 
Maria and Eusebio can come out of the shadows.
  Mr. Speaker--for every case like Maria's or Shaima's there are dozens 
more left unresolved.
  Countless families have been left in limbo, unsure if or when they 
will ever see their loved ones again.
  Not only do we owe it to these families to fix our broken immigration 
system--we owe it to the country and the constitution to live up to 
American values.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an organization 
that has done tremendous work both locally and on the global stage for 
10 remarkable years now, The AFYA Foundation.
  The vision for AFYA began to take shape in a tent in the Serengeti. 
It was 2008, and AFYA's founder, Danielle Butin, was in Tanzania. She 
saw a woman sitting in a tent crying, who said, ``I am a highly sought-
after physician from London, I took a month off from my practice to 
come here to volunteer and work in medical clinics. But they have 
nothing . . . absolutely nothing. I cannot save children from malaria 
because there are no meds or IV bags of fluids. People come in with 
infected wounds, and I have nothing to treat them with.'' In that 
moment, Danielle was compelled to take action. She returned home and 
immediately put her familiarity with and experience in New York City 
healthcare to use--cold calling hospitals and asking about materials 
that are discarded. In January 2008 she launched AFYA, which means 
``health'' or ``wellness'' in Swahili.
  Almost immediately, hospitals started donating supplies. Since they 
didn't have a warehouse to store the equipment and supplies, a semi-
trailer sat for three weeks outside her home in Westchester County. 
These humble beginnings are what grew 10 years later into an 
organization with a staff of 14, 3,000 volunteers annually, and a 
17,000 square foot warehouse in Yonkers.
  Today, AFYA continues to serve those in need with the same compassion 
that inspired its vision ten years ago on the African savannah. As the 
Congressman representing Yonkers and the Ranking Democrat on the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee, I couldn't be prouder of the work they have 
done and continue to do. I want to congratulate Danielle and the entire 
AFYA team on ten remarkable years and thank them for all they have done 
to better our community and world.



Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I want to honor a civic organization in 
Yonkers that this year is celebrating a remarkable milestone--the 
Yonkers Chamber of Commerce. 2018 will mark 125 years for the Chamber, 
which for well over a century now has worked to improve economic 
development in the region while building and promoting the city of 
Yonkers.
  The Chamber's legacy of service began, officially, on May 1, 1893 
when William F. Cochran, a leading Yonkers businessman, entered the old 
City Court Room and rapped his gavel to officially sanction what was to 
become a tradition to the local business community. The Yonkers Board 
of Trade was born. A number of prominent citizens, fifty-two to be 
exact, gathered to sanction what would later become Yonkers' leading 
business organization.
  A decade later, the Board of Trade continued to address issues of 
concern and helped establish a visible and viable business community. 
In 1903 the decision was made to form a Chamber of Commerce, and the 
process to make this a reality was put into place. On December 8, 1913, 
the Yonkers Chamber of Commerce officially became the 325th certified 
member of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
  The Chamber of Commerce has served as the guardian and advocate of 
business, and works to foster a healthy relationship with government to 
establish programs designed to enhance business opportunities and 
attract new commercial establishments to the city. The Chamber of 
Commerce represents a diversified membership of retail, industry, 
professionals and service organizations, etc. from major corporations 
to ``mom and pop'' stores. Each member is treated with the same respect 
and concern, regardless of size.
  Today, the mission of the Yonkers Chamber of Commerce ``to serve, 
build and promote a progressive city'' is alive and well. 
Congratulations to the entire Yonkers Chamber of Commerce Board, 
leadership, and membership on reaching this remarkable milestone.
                        


Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, on December 21, 2018, I experienced technical 
difficulties with the electronic voting machine on the House floor, and 
my vote for S. 3628, the National Flood Insurance Program Extension 
Act, was not recorded. My intention was to vote yea for roll call No. 
500.
                        


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I want to honor a dear friend who has made 
such a remarkable impact in our community for more than 40 years, 
Reverend Dr. Keith Elijah Thompson of Bronx Miracle Gospel Tabernacle 
Word of Faith Ministries.
  Many have referred to Rev. Thompson as the ``Man in the Community'' 
due to his four decades of service to the northeast Bronx. After a 
successful career as an entrepreneur, he answered the call from God and 
entered full-time ministry in 1980. From the inception of the ministry, 
Rev. Thompson integrated a holistic approach, giving special attention 
to the Tripartite nature of human beings to establish communication 
beyond the confines of church. Starting out as a simple storefront, 
Bronx Miracle Gospel Tabernacle World grew by leaps and bounds. In 1993 
the Church moved locations to accommodate the growing congregation. Now 
located on Burke Avenue, the church began to expand further into the 
community through a series of outreach programs including GED and 
college prep courses, in addition to Missions and radio outreach.
  Rev. Thompson was also instrumental in spearheading several other 
high-profile community initiatives and groups, including the Clergy 
Coalition of the 47th Precinct and the White Plains Road/Burke Avenue 
Merchant Association. He also served as Dean of El Shaddai Christian 
School, Vice President of the 49th Precinct Clergy Council, member of 
the 47th Precinct Community Council, and has been active with Bronx 
Community Board 12 and the Williamsbridge and Bronx branches of the 
NAACP. As Chancellor of the Bronx Resource Community Center, which he 
helped form, Rev. Thompson oversaw a facility that provided high school 
equivalency diplomas, job training, and basic computer training to the 
community.
  In October 2014 Bronx Miracle Gospel Tabernacle World moved once 
again to accommodate growing membership. The move has allowed Rev. 
Thompson to further expand services, which now include Back to School 
Festivals and clothing donation distribution.
  Rev. Thompson has accomplished so much for his congregants and for 
the entire northeast Bronx community as a whole. This year, Bronx 
Miracle Gospel Tabernacle World is celebrating his 38th Pastoral 
Anniversary. On this wonderful occasion, I want to congratulate Rev. 
Thompson and thank him for the wonderful work he and his ministries 
continue to do.
                        


Ms. SHEA-PORTER. Mr. Speaker, due to an illness, I regret that I was 
unable to make votes from December 19, 2018 to December 21, 2018.
  Had I been present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 446, Roll 
Call No. 463, Roll Call No. 467, Roll Call No. 468, Roll Call No. 469, 
Roll Call No. 470, Roll Call No. 472, Roll Call No. 494, Roll Call No. 
497, and Roll Call No. 498.
  I would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 436, Roll Call No. 437, Roll 
Call No. 438, Roll Call No. 439, Roll Call No. 440, Roll Call No. 441, 
Roll Call No. 442, Roll Call No. 443, Roll Call No. 444, Roll Call No. 
445, Roll Call No. 447, Roll Call No. 448, Roll Call No. 449, Roll Call 
No. 450, Roll Call No. 451, Roll Call No. 452, Roll Call No. 453, Roll 
Call No. 454, Roll Call No. 455, Roll Call No. 456, Roll Call No. 457, 
Roll Call No. 458, Roll Call No. 459, Roll Call No. 460, Roll Call No. 
461, Roll Call No. 462, Roll Call No. 464, Roll Call No. 465, Roll Call 
No. 466, Roll Call No. 471, Roll Call No. 473, Roll Call No. 474, Roll 
Call No. 475, Roll Call No. 476, Roll Call No. 477, Roll Call No. 478, 
Roll Call No. 479, Roll Call No. 480, Roll Call No. 481, Roll Call No. 
482, Roll Call No. 483, Roll Call No. 484, Roll Call No. 485, Roll Call 
No. 486, Roll Call No. 487, Roll Call No. 488, Roll Call No. 489, Roll 
Call No. 490, Roll Call No. 491, Roll Call No. 492, Roll Call No. 493, 
Roll Call No. 495, Roll Call No. 496, Roll Call No. 499, and Roll Call 
No. 500.
                        


Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the life of my 
constituent and neighbor, Mr. Thomas Charles Braun. A beloved artist, 
activist, family man, and small business owner, Mr. Braun passed away 
in October 2018. I join my neighbors in recognizing the tremendous 
gifts he gave to our community.
  Born in Lake City, Minnesota, Mr. Braun was always an artistic and 
passionate person. After getting his degree in theater from Lawrence 
University, Mr. Braun taught theater at Lea College, Ekerd College, and 
Normandale Community College. He inspired countless young adults 
through his commitment to fun and daring productions before he left 
academia to run Wild Rumpus in Minneapolis in 1988.
  Consistently recognized as one of the most inventive bookstores 
nationwide, Wild Rumpus is symbolic of the type of person Mr. Braun 
was--open and inviting, passionate about having fun, and always up for 
trying something new and mischievous. Under his devoted management, the 
store garnered national awards, including being named Bookstore of the 
Year by Publisher's Weekly in 2017. As described in his obituary, `One 
never really ``worked for'' Tom. Rather, you became a co-conspirator in 
his sense of mischief and philosophy of ``why not?'' '
  But Mr. Braun was passionate not only about light-hearted ventures. 
He founded Linden Hills Power & Light, an organization that fights for 
climate action on the grassroots level. They were a key constituency 
pushing for citywide door-to-door compost collection, spearheading the 
first pilot program with the City of Minneapolis and Hennepin County. 
Mr. Braun's drive to model the world he wanted to see through his own 
choices and actions was a driving force for some of our most important 
city-wide sustainability efforts.
  Though Mr. Braun is no longer with us, the impact he has made on our 
community will be visible for years to come. I am grateful that he gave 
us so much of his energy and vision, and that he created lasting 
organizations that will continue to model his commitment to being a 
good person, doing right by his neighbors, and fighting for a better 
world. I thank Mr. Braun for all that he has given to Minnesota.
                        


Ms. ROSEN. Mr. Speaker, on December 21, I was not present due to the 
death of my brother two days prior. Had I been present, I would have 
voted ``yea'' on roll call votes 474, 475, 476, 477, 478, 479, 480, 
481, 482, 483, 484, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 493, 495, 496, 
499, and 500. I would have voted ``nay'' on roll call votes 485, 494, 
497, and 498.
  
                          



Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, our community here in New York's 16th 
Congressional District is very fortunate to have Taryn Duffy, a friend 
who this year is being honored by the Ancient Order of Hibernians for 
all her outstanding work. I want to take a moment to recognize her on 
the occasion.
  Taryn has extensive experience within the New York State public 
policy arena, as well as public relations and communications. As Vice 
President of Corporate Communications & Public Affairs for Empire City 
Casino at Yonkers Raceway, Taryn oversees public relations and external 
affairs. She is also principal of TSD Strategies, Inc., a public 
relations and communications firm founded in 2014.
  As a former Vice President at Mercury Public Affairs, a national 
public strategy firm, Taryn put her experience to work for clients in a 
variety of industries. She has worked on dozens of political campaigns 
and briefly departed the political world to serve as Director of 
Admissions of Mercy College's Bronx Campus.
  Recognized as an advocate for volunteer service and civic engagement, 
Taryn was a recipient of City & State Magazine's Above and Beyond 
Award, a Bronx Chamber of Commerce Honoree for distinguished service, 
and honored as a Women of Influence by the Irish Voice.
  Outside of her many professional accomplishments, Taryn is passionate 
about mentoring young women in their careers and served as a panelist 
for the Workforce Development Institute's ``Women in Leadership: 
Securing a Seat at the Table'' forum hosted by Senate Leader Andrea 
Stewart-Cousins and then-Assembly Member Shelley Mayer. She was also a 
panelist at City & State Magazine's ``On Advocacy'' conference to 
assist non-profit organizations in their advocacy efforts and has led 
campaign readiness trainings for women interested in running for 
political office.
  Active in numerous civic and professional organizations, Taryn serves 
on a variety of boards including United Way of Westchester & Putnam 
Counties, Business Council of Westchester, ArtsWestchester, Yonkers 
Workforce Development Board, the Yonkers Mayor's Women's Advisory 
Council, Bronx Advisory Council for Visions Services for the Blind, 
Yonkers Career & Technical Education Advisory Council, and Bronxville 
Terrace Owners Corporation. She is also a member of The Public 
Relations Society of America.
  Taryn Duffy has accomplished a great deal and has made some 
tremendous contributions to the community. AOH picked a most deserving 
honoree. Congratulations to Taryn.
                        


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, today I wish to call attention to 
President Trump's recent decisions to withdraw or threaten U.S. 
withdrawal from four treaties: the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces 
Treaty, INF Treaty; the Universal Postal Union, UPU, treaty; the 
Optional Protocol to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, 
``VCDR Option Protocol''; and the Treaty of Amity, Economic Relations 
and Consular Rights between the United States and Iran, ``Treaty of 
Amity''. The President made these decisions without notice or 
meaningful consultation with the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, 
the congressional committee charged with responsibility and 
jurisdiction over treaties.
  As the ranking member of that committee, I am compelled to 
strenuously object to the manner in which the President has acted, but 
all Senators should protest, regardless of their views on the substance 
of the respective agreements. The President's actions erode the 
constitutional powers of this body and our institutional prerogatives.
  Article 2 of the Constitution endows the President and the Senate 
with shared power over treaties. The President, it states, ``shall have 
power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make 
treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur.''
  While the Constitution does not expressly dictate a procedure for 
terminating treaty relationships, Senators have long asserted that the 
shared treaty power extends to withdrawal and therefore also requires 
Senate advice and consent. Even though the executive branch may not 
agree with this position, what is unacceptable is that Senators are 
first learning about these withdrawals online or in the newspaper 
instead of through proactive outreach by and meaningful dialogue with 
the executive branch.
  President Trump has regrettably shown exceedingly little respect for 
the Constitution and for the institutional prerogatives of this body. I 
stand today to highlight one area in which he has actively undermined 
the Senate's constitutional role and authority. I plan to do everything 
in my power to protect the Senate's role and responsibilities over 
treaties and urge all of my colleagues to join in this effort.
                        


Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, it is my honor to pay tribute to 
Fort Sill in Oklahoma in preparation of this great military 
installation's 150th anniversary on January 8, 2019. For 150 years, 
Fort Sill has played a critical role in our national defense, from an 
outpost to prevent border raids, to today as the home of the Fires 
Center of Excellence and Basic Combat Training site. The history of 
Fort Sill can be traced back to January 8, 1869, when Major General 
Philip H. Sheridan staked out the site of Fort Sill in a campaign into 
Indian Territory to prevent border settlements from being raided in 
Texas and Kansas. The garrison was initially named Camp Wichita and was 
later renamed after Brigadier General Joshua W. Sill, in honor of 
General Sheridan's West Point classmate and friend who was killed 
during the American Civil War.
  The first post commander was Brevet Major General Benjamin Grierson, 
and the first Indian agent was Colonel Albert Gallatin Boone, grandson 
of Daniel Boone. The last Indian lands in Oklahoma opened for 
settlement in 1901, and 29,000 homesteaders registered at Fort Sill 
during July for the land lottery. On August 6, 1901, the town of Lawton 
was established and quickly grew to become the third largest city in 
Oklahoma and was later renamed Lawton-Fort Sill.
  With the disappearance of the frontier, the mission of Fort Sill 
gradually changed from cavalry to field artillery as the first 
artillery battery arrived at Fort Sill in 1902, and the last cavalry 
regiment departed in May 1907. In 1917, the Henry Post Army Airfield 
was constructed for artillery observation and spotting. The School of 
Fire for the Field Artillery was founded at Fort Sill in 1911 and 
continues to operate today as the world-renowned U.S. Army Field 
Artillery School. At various historic times, Fort Sill has also served 
as home to the Infantry School of Musketry, the School for Aerial 
Observers, the Artillery Officers Candidate School--Robinson Barracks--
the Air Service Flying School, and the Army Aviation School. Fort Sill 
is the birthplace of military combat aviation, 1st Aero Squadron. It is 
home to Henry Post Army Airfield, the oldest airfield in the Army. In 
August 1917, Captain H.R. Eyrich surveyed a new airfield location at 
Fort Sill and established the airfield, which is named after Second 
Lieutenant Henry D. Post.
  Fort Sill remains the only Active Army installation of all the forts 
on the South Plains built during the Indian Wars and was designated as 
a National Historic Landmark in 1960. Fort Sill serves as home of the 
U.S. Army Field Artillery School; the U.S. Army Air Defense Artillery 
School; the 428th Field Artillery Training Brigade; the 30th Air 
Defense Artillery Training Brigade; the 434th Field Artillery Basic 
Combat Training Brigade; the Marine Corps Field Artillery Military 
Occupational Specialty school, the 75th (Forces Command) Fires Brigade; 
and the 31st (Forces Command) Air Defense Artillery Brigade.
  Thousands of soldiers and marines have been trained for service in 
the field artillery at Fort Sill. Notable alumni include President 
Harry S. Truman, who during World War I became the commander of Company 
D, 129th Field Artillery, entering combat in the last few months of the 
war, moving his horse-drawn battery to engage the enemy and supporting 
the infantry, firing his last shot on the day of the armistice.
  It is also important to recognize the positive impact and 
connectivity of the Lawton-Fort Sill relationship. The connection 
between the community and the military installation is what makes Fort 
Sill so unique and successful. The community members and 
representatives are equally responsible for the rich history and 
successes of Fort Sill. Based on exemplary community support and 
vision, Fort Sill has actually benefited from five rounds of Base 
Realignment and Closure. Through these five rounds, the mission and 
importance of Fort Sill has increased. This highlights the fact that 
Fort Sill is more than just a military installation, for 150 years Fort 
Sill has been a part of the community.
  As Fort Sill turns 150, the senior leadership at the installation 
represent the long history of high-caliber military personnel who have 
set foot at Fort Sill. I would like to recognize the following 
personnel: the Fires Center of Excellence and Fort Sill commanding 
general MG Wilson Shoffner, Jr.; Fires Center of Excellence CSM John W. 
Folley; Fort Sill garrison commander COL Don A. King, Jr.; Fires Center 
of Excellence Field Artillery School commandant BG Stephen G. Smith; 
and Fires Center of Excellence Air Defense Artillery School commandant 
BG Brian W. Gibson.
  On behalf of Congress and the United States of America, I want to 
congratulate Fort Sill on 150 successful years and thank the men and 
women who have served their nation while assigned to Fort Sill for 
their continued commitment, sacrifice, and contributions to this great 
Nation.<bullet>
                        


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn to then convene for pro 
forma session only with no business being conducted on Thursday, 
January 3, at 11:50 a.m. and that the Senate adjourn until it next 
convenes at 12 noon on Thursday, January 3, pursuant to the 
Constitution; further, that following the prayer and pledge and 
following the presentation of the certificates of election and the 
swearing in of elected Members and the required live quorum, the 
morning hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved 
to date, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use 
later in the day; and further, that following leader remarks, the 
Senate be in a period of morning business, with Senators permitted to 
speak therein for up to 10 minutes each.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                        


Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to have my votes recorded on the 
House floor from Wednesday, December 19 through Friday, December 21, 
2018. Had I been present, I would have supported all bills considered 
under a suspension of the rules, with the following exceptions:
   I would have voted no on S. 1934 as I feel that it is important that 
environmental standards in remote areas must be strengthened whenever 
possible to preserve natural landscapes.
   I would have voted against H.R. 7388. While I support long term 
reforms to the National Flood Insurance Program, I feel that it is 
important to avoid any lapse in the program to ensure continuity for 
homeowners and those looking to purchase a home. To that end, this bill 
would have been counterproductive by creating uncertainty about the 
NFIP by sending the extension back to the Senate at the 11th hour.
   I would also like to add a few comments on a couple bills that I 
would have supported:
   In particular, as an original cosponsor of the Codifying Useful 
Regulatory Definitions (CURD) Act, I would have voted yes on final 
passage of S. 2322. This bill would give real Wisconsin cheese makers 
the certainty they need to produce a special natural product.
   I also would have voted yes on the Space Frontier Act of 2018, 
despite serious concerns about process. Just as Ranking Member of the 
House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Bernice Johnson stated 
on the floor, I support NASA's mission and thus would have supported 
this bill.
   Additionally, I would have opposed the following bills considered 
under a rule:
   I would have voted against H.R. 88. A $100 billion boondoggle, H.R. 
88 would have arbitrarily extended some important credits but not 
others, leave some communities suffering from disasters out in the cold 
and inject unnecessary social politics into our tax code. As I said on 
the floor on November 29th, the first time this bill was brought to the 
floor, I would have opposed the package.
   I would have voted against H.R. 695, as amended. Rather than 
providing pay for dedicated public servants over the holidays, 
particularly TSA agents working to protect Americans traveling to see 
loved ones over the holidays, House leadership rejected a unanimous 
agreement in the Senate to keep the government open. Instead, they 
passed a blatantly partisan package that had no chance of passage in 
the Senate and virtually ensured a government shutdown.
                        


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Sheriff Keith Royal, 
who is retiring from the Nevada County Sheriff's Office after more than 
40 years in law enforcement.
   Sheriff Royal is a life-long public servant dedicated to protecting 
and serving his community. His father Kenneth, a Deputy with the 
Sacramento County Sheriff's Office, was killed in the line of duty 
while attempting to apprehend a robbery suspect. His two brothers, Ken 
and Patrick, and nephew Steven all served in the Sacramento County 
Sheriff's Office, where his son-in-law Jeff is currently a Deputy.
   Keith was born and raised in Northern California and remains an 
active member of his community. After graduating from Cal State 
Sacramento with a degree in Criminal Justice, he served as a California 
DMV Investigator, shortly after which he began training at the 
Sacramento Sheriff's Academy. As an Executive Lieutenant, he served in 
various roles with the Sacramento Sheriff's Office, including as a Jail 
Manager, Reserve Coordinator, and Vice Detail.
   First elected as Nevada County Sheriff in 1998, Royal's leadership 
led to an overall drop in the crime rate. He worked to modernize the 
dispatch center, expand the Neighborhood Watch and Volunteer programs, 
and establish the School Resource Officer Program. Additionally, 
Sheriff Royal amassed $8 million in special revenue funds for the 
Sheriff's Office, implemented computerized jail management and high-
band radio systems, and obtained a new evidence facility and DNA lab. 
During this time, he also served as President of the California State 
Sheriffs' Association, and as Chair of its Undersheriff's Committee.
   These are just a handful of the things that Sheriff Royal was able 
to accomplish over his tenure, which has created a safer and more 
prosperous community for the residents of Nevada County.
   Having been the second-longest serving Sheriff in the history of 
Nevada County, Sheriff Royal is now ready to spend more time with his 
daughters and granddaughters. Along with teaching them to fish, he 
hopes to spend time maintaining his garden, golfing, and enjoying some 
much-needed down time.
   Sheriff Royal's service has left a lasting impact on Nevada County, 
and I thank him for his service and wish him the best in his future 
endeavors.
                        


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Hermann Bearcats Volleyball team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2 State Volleyball Championship.
   This team and Coach Linda Lampkin should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Hermann Bearcats Volleyball 
team for a job well done.
                        


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Agriculture 
Committee and a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee, I am 
pleased that the Conference report will strengthen the existing SNAP 
Employment and Training program by facilitating better connections 
between existing workforce development efforts and employers in local 
communities. Specifically, conferees rejected the one-size-fits-all 
approach to training programs that H.R. 2 had initially adopted, as 
these programs have consistently proven to be ineffective--too often 
failing to match low-income adults with the types of training and job 
opportunities they need. Instead, the Farm Bill conference report 
supports collaboration between workforce development programs and 
employers already tackling this job in their communities to better 
serve SNAP participants--a win for both participants and for local 
employers.
  I am also pleased that the Conference report includes several 
provisions that will improve the types of programs that SNAP employment 
and training can provide. The conference report reinforces the 
requirement that states properly assess clients and assign them to 
programs appropriate to their needs and skills. It also recognizes the 
important role case management services can play in helping to address 
barriers to work by requiring states to provide these types of 
services. Additionally, conferees prioritized the funding of innovative 
employment and training pilot programs, including pilot programs that 
serve specific groups with known barriers to work. These types of smart 
investments will have a
demonstrated impact on improving client outcomes, as opposed to 
spending billions on the creation of large new bureaucracies to track 
monthly work tests for millions of SNAP participants as the House 
passed bill would have done.
  I am also pleased that the conferees address a long-standing 
problem--when a SNAP participant is referred to a training program, and 
the program determines that the services they provide are not well 
matched to the needs of the participant. States have long been required 
to do meaningful assessments in order to properly assign clients. We 
believe the expanded investment in case management should improve this 
capacity. And, this bill emphasized that reassessment is important as 
well. But sometimes, when the state refers someone to a local training 
provider the provider--after doing their own assessment--determines 
that their services aren't appropriate for the individual. Under 
current law, that leaves the individual out of luck and even at risk of 
losing SNAP benefits and wastes the time and services of the training 
provider. The bill and report make clear that states must reassess and 
reassign the participant if appropriate. Participants will no longer 
lose benefits because states are doing a poor job of assigning them to 
programs that don't work for them.
  The primary role of employment and training programs should always be 
to transition people to sustained self-reliance rather than to find 
reasons to cut them off from benefits.
                          



Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Eureka Wildcats Volleyball team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Class 4 State Volleyball Championship.
   This team and Coach Jodie Fowler should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Eureka Wildcats Volleyball 
team for a job well done.
                        


Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of myself and Mr. Brady of 
Pennsylvania, the Ranking Member of the Committee on House 
Administration, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize 
Thomas G. Hungar for his distinguished service as General Counsel to 
the House of Representatives.
  Drawing on his mastery of constitutional law and broad litigation 
experience, Mr. Hungar has provided thoughtful and effective legal 
advice to Members, Committees, and staff on a host of legal matters, 
without regard to political affiliation. As the House's top lawyer, Mr. 
Hungar has employed his considerable expertise and sound judgment to 
protect and strengthen the institutional prerogatives of the House, 
rightfully earning him the respect and admiration of the entire House 
community.
  Of particular importance to the Committee on House Administration, 
Mr. Hungar has skillfully counseled the Committee's Members and staff 
on a wide range of significant matters with far-reaching institutional 
implications. Mr. Hungar has also been a trusted advisor to the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House. Mr. Hungar has been a source of 
tremendous leadership and legal advice to the Committee and the House.
  On behalf of the Members of the Committee on House Administration and 
the Committee staff, we thank Mr. Hungar for his service to the House 
and wish him the very best as he takes the next step in his illustrious 
career.
                        


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise, along with Hank Johnson, 
Chair of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the 
Internet; and Sheila Jackson Lee, Chair of the Subcommittee on Crime, 
Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations--to thank Jason 
Everett for nearly a decade of service to the House Judiciary 
Committee.
  Growing up in Alexandria, Virginia, Jason attended college at Duke 
University and law school at William and Mary, before returning to the 
Washington, D.C. area. He began his career on Capitol Hill as a 
Legislative Aide to Senator Barbara Boxer, and he later worked for 
Congressman Mel Watt as a Legislative Assistant covering Judiciary 
Committee issues. He joined the House Judiciary Committee in 2009 as a 
Counsel, working on intellectual property and other issues, and he 
later rose to become Chief Counsel of the Subcommittee on Courts, 
Intellectual Property, and the Internet, as well as a Deputy Chief 
Counsel of the Full Committee, overseeing the Intellectual Property and 
Crime Subcommittees.
  As Chief Counsel of the Intellectual Property Subcommittee, Jason was 
responsible for handling highly complex patent, copyright, trademark, 
and courts issues, among other matters. Many Members and staff relied 
heavily on his ability to explain, in a clear and understandable 
manner, the often complicated and highly technical matters that moved 
through his Subcommittee. He also deftly balanced his substantive 
expertise with a keen appreciation of the various stakeholders' 
interests in each issue, and an ability to find consensus among these 
sometimes divergent interests.
  Jason's efforts were vital to enacting significant reforms to the 
intellectual property ecosystem that will promote innovation and 
protect the creative community. For example, he worked tirelessly to 
pass the Defend Trade Secrets Act, which helps firms keep proprietary 
information--which, if disclosed, could be ruinous to them--from being 
made public. This legislation will save the American economy many 
billions of dollars, and preserve many thousands of jobs.
  Jason was also a critical player in the Committee's lengthy review of 
the Copyright laws, leading to passage of the Music Modernization Act, 
historic bipartisan legislation to reform the music licensing system. 
He spent countless hours working with a vast array of stakeholders to 
craft legislation that will better serve music creators and digital 
music providers, and ultimately consumers. He was also instrumental in 
passing legislation to promote greater diversity among patent holders, 
passing legislation to ensure that visually impaired individuals have 
access to published works, and developing hearings to oversee the 
implementation of the America Invents Act.
  In each of these matters, Jason not only worked with various parties 
to achieve consensus, but he also worked closely with his Republican 
counterparts to find a bipartisan solution. Jason's cooperative spirit 
and excellent sense of humor helped pave the way for legislation that 
ultimately garnered near unanimous support.
  In addition to Jason's work on the Intellectual Property 
Subcommittee, as a Deputy Chief Counsel for the Full Committee, he also 
worked closely with his colleagues on the Crime Subcommittee. In this 
role, he helped navigate many thorny issues in pursuit of criminal 
justice reform, and his efforts paid off with passage of the First Step 
Act. He has also been involved in a range of other criminal justice 
issues, such as the Violence Against Women Act and gun safety.
  Jason is universally well-liked and respected among Democrats and 
Republicans, Members and staff, both on the Hill and off. His positive 
attitude and hard work will be greatly missed by everyone who worked 
with him, but we wish him all the best in his future endeavors, and we 
thank him for his service to the Judiciary Committee, to the Congress, 
and to the country.
                          



Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is with a deep sentiment of 
gratitude that I rise today to recognize Barbara Angus, Chief Tax 
Counsel for the Ways and Means Committee, as she departs our Committee 
staff.
  Whenever I travel Texas and the country, folks often ask me when I 
knew that tax reform was going to be a reality. Without a doubt, that 
moment hit me when Barbara interviewed for the position of Chief Tax 
Counsel.
  Holding degrees from two Ivy League Institutions, and with decades of 
experience at the Treasury Department and within the private sector, 
few in Washington match Barbara's intelligence, leadership, and work 
ethic. Barbara understands our tax code almost better than anyone else. 
Which is why she understood that it was time for a rewrite, to get rid 
of its uncompetitive and unfair nature.
  Mr. Speaker, Barbara's efforts changed history. With her guidance and 
expertise, we were able to create a tax code that finally works for 
families and Main Street businesses.
  For the first time in over 30 years, we did what many said was 
impossible. We lowered rates while broadening the base; we closed 
special-interest loopholes that riddled the system for far too long; we 
gave families first say over their hard-earned money; and we gave our 
job creators a tax code that allows them to compete and win here at 
home instead of abroad. None of this would have been possible without 
Barbara Angus.
  On behalf of our entire Committee, I want to say thank you to Barbara 
for her three years of service to the people's House. I am so thankful 
for her guidance and friendship. My Chairmanship has been benefited 
greatly because of Barbara and it has been an honor to work with her.
  We wish her all the best as she moves on to the next chapter of her 
storied career. Barbara will be missed dearly by our Committee staff, 
and she will always be part of our Ways and Means family.
                        


Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the work of the 
Congressional Black Caucus during the 115th Congress.
  The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) spent the 115th Congress 
fighting against attempts to return this country to darker days by 
being fearless in telling our truth. Black Americans, who helped build 
the very Capitol in which we stand, are once again witnessing our own 
government set the wheels in motion to turn against us. This Congress, 
led by a group of people cozier with the one percent than with the 
forgotten man or woman, has worked with this Presidential 
administration to turn back the clock. The CBC has stood up for our 
values time and time again to say that we will not go back to those 
dark days. We have been unrelenting in standing against this tide and 
will not shy away from this battle.
  The CBC has worked tirelessly to infuse morality into the legislative 
debates during the 115th Congress and perform tireless oversight into 
the harmful policies of this Presidential administration. Since this 
President took office, he has led efforts to reverse substantive 
policies that have helped black Americans and failed to stem the tide 
of hatred and racism that made a strong resurgence during this divisive 
tenure. The lack of moral leadership has endangered disenfranchised 
communities and policy decisions have eroded critical economic, health 
and education programming. The Caucus has taken every opportunity to 
lift every voice to object to hurtful and immoral lawmaking while 
engaging the public in conversations about the stakes we were facing.
  The CBC had to fight for our values from the earliest days of this 
Congress, with an incoming President nominating a number of unqualified 
people to lead his cabinet agencies, including then Senator Jefferson 
Beauregard Sessions, who the President wanted to appoint to the 
Department of Justice. I represented the Caucus alongside my colleagues 
Senator Booker and living legend Representative John Lewis in speaking 
out against Sessions' lifetime of support for troubling policies that 
impeded the progress of black Americans.
  The President wasted no time in partnering with his allies in this 
Congress to advance an agenda that carried water for billionaires while 
ignoring the nation' s most vulnerable citizens. The Caucus once again 
reprised its role as the Conscience of the Congress by opposing this 
Congress and this White House as they worked in concert to attack 
vulnerable communities by neutering programming that served them.
  When the White House planned a national voter suppression and 
intimidation effort, the Congressional Black Caucus criticized the 
Administration's sham ``Voter Integrity Commission'' for seeking to 
solve a voter fraud issue that was clearly non-existent. In a few short 
weeks, the states themselves rose up against this effort and it 
mercifully perished due to a strong resistance against its undemocratic 
underpinnings. When the President demonstrated an uncomfortable 
coziness with Russian operatives the Caucus performed oversight. When 
the Department of Justice re-energized the war on drugs the Caucus 
stood firm in its opposition to restoring policies that unfairly 
targeted black citizens in law enforcement activity feeding an 
unsustainable mass incarceration machine. When the President asked the 
Caucus and black communities ``What the Hell do You Have to Lose'', the 
Caucus went to the White House with a 130 page policy document 
educating this President about issues facing black America. We provided 
dozens of policy options that a serious White House could have 
leveraged to improve the lives of Americans of all colors who face 
challenges. We haven't heard back.
  The CBC responded to the White House's immoral budget request with 
its own budget, infused with morality and justice. The Caucus' budget 
proposal invested in education, jobs and healthcare while asking the 
wealthiest among us to pay their fair share. The budget received strong 
support in a floor vote and we are going to continue to introduce 
spending plans that invest in the important things in this nation in a 
responsible fashion.
  The CBC stood up against the injustice sought by this Congress when 
it planned to cut taxes for billionaires while robbing health care from 
struggling families. This crisis of morality in Congress was compounded 
by an administration that was sabotaging affordable health care at 
every turn. Facing a moral crisis and the potential for enduring pain, 
the CBC called on everyone to think twice before hurting tens of 
millions of Americans. We raised our voices against the injustice of 
failing to invest in new jobs for hard working Americans while Congress 
handed corporate giants billions of dollars in tax breaks. All the 
while the President sought historic cuts to programs that seniors, 
children and families rely on to live. We have pointed out repeatedly 
that these morally bankrupt policies will also endanger the country, 
impairing future investments in our human capital and other important 
resources to all of our eventual detriment.
  The CBC has been actively fighting against a steady stream of 
increased hate crimes and public racism. When this President failed to 
condemn white supremacists and Nazis, the CBC called for racists to be 
purged from this White House, and within weeks, most of the most odious 
and hateful people around the President were gone. We also called for 
white supremacist figures to be purged from Congressional spaces and 
for Confederate symbols and statues to be removed. We have also 
continued to fight for a more fair criminal justice system that gives 
ex-offenders a second chance while holding wayward police departments 
accountable for unconstitutional policing practices. Our members have 
been on the front lines of pushing for deserving non-violent offenders 
to re-enter our community and for police departments to restore 
humanity to their interactions with our neighborhoods.
  When the FBI made up a new term to describe politically engaged black 
Americans, ``black identity extremists'', the Caucus spoke truth to 
power, meeting with FBI Director Christopher Wray to demand that the 
FBI provide more insights into the origins of this harmful term and 
explain how it might impact their investigations. We made it clear that 
we expected the FBI to not target Americans simply due to their 
physical characteristics and political views. This felt like a 
throwback to an earlier, darker period in our history, when the FBI 
surveilled black Americans it found objectionable. We told Director 
Wray that the CBC would not stand for a COINTELPRO 2.0 and that his 
investigations needed to be done absent the stain of a poorly worded 
term such as ``black identity extremist''. The Caucus also repeatedly 
stood up against inept and unqualified attorneys and jurists being 
offered up for lifetime appointments to the federal judiciary. Thanks 
in large part to the work of the Caucus, some of the most horrific 
institutional racists are not on the bench today. And this will stand 
as a testament to the work of the Caucus infusing morality into the 
deliberations of legislators in this Capitol.
  When African and Caribbean countries were disrespectfully referenced 
by being called ``shithole countries'' the Caucus called for those 
remarks to be censured. At the first state of the union, this Caucus 
stared the hateful policies in the face and showed the
world that we would not let a hurtful administration impose an ounce of 
fear upon us.
  In addition to performing robust oversight, this Caucus set out to 
introduce legislation that would protect vulnerable communities while 
investing in the future. Our members put significant work into 
addressing a host of issues that would improve outcomes for black 
families and for all Americans that yearn for better. The Caucus' 1300-
page bill, the Jobs and Justice Act of 2018, is a blueprint for serious 
legislators that want to bring change to this country in an inclusive 
way. I hope that the next Congress leverages the work this Caucus has 
done by implementing much of the bill in the important legislation that 
is to come.
  This Caucus also worked to hold corporate America accountable for 
ensuring that all of America was represented in its ranks and to ensure 
that their businesses were not being leveraged to harm communities of 
color. We called on the largest companies and investors in America to 
diversity their boards, c-suites and supply chains. We also called on 
powerful social media companies to invest in more diverse workforces to 
better identify attempts to weaponize platforms to inflame racial 
tensions. In addition, we called on technology companies to better 
address implicit bias in the development of new artificial intelligence 
tools to ensure that these new tools demonstrated more promise than 
peril.
  When the history books are written, this Congress will be cited as a 
failure. Instead of serving as a constitutional check and balance 
against a historically corrupt President with repressive instincts, 
this Republican led Congress enabled and emboldened an unqualified 
executive to run roughshod over civil liberties and the rights of 
underserved and struggling communities. It is no surprise that several 
members of this Caucus have been some of the earliest voices to examine 
whether the constitutional remedy of impeachment is an appropriate tool 
to address the dangers this President poses to our republic. This 
Congress has been an embarrassment and has failed American families 
time and time again.
  But like a phoenix rising, Americans have chosen a different 
direction. The House of Representatives will be under new leadership in 
just a few short days, ushering in a new era of oversight and morally 
infused legislating with members of the CBC in key positions to deliver 
better outcomes for Americans of all kinds from all races and from all 
parties. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus are members of the 
human race who care for their fellow man and woman. We come from 
communities that have been long forgotten over the broad sweep of 
American history. These same communities have bred hope and promise 
during these same times. Our optimism and faith has never wavered, even 
at the darkest times. We have come this far by faith. And we have miles 
left to go before we sleep. The members of this Caucus will continue to 
lead in the debates that matter.
  It has been an honor to serve as the chairman of this incredible 
group of legislators. I pray that in our service, the 48 members of 
this bi-partisan, bi-cameral caucus have made our ancestors proud and 
our constituents eager to continue to work with us to advance the 
interests of all communities that seek to be led by men and women of 
conscience. We walk in the footsteps of our ancestors and have not yet 
completed the journeys that they started when they were first forced 
off overcrowded slave ships onto the shores of this nation. This has 
been an imperfect union, but it is one that is worth fighting to 
preserve.
  As I yield the chairmanship of the CBC to incoming chair Karen Bass 
of California, I wish her strength and resolve for the fights to come. 
I pray the Lord will guide her steps to continue the work of our 
ancestors and the work of the 13 Founders of the CBC, who came together 
in 1971 to raise their voices to confront the massive challenges that 
faced them at that time. Many of our challenges are the same though the 
times have changed around us. I know that Representative Bass will 
continue to lead this Caucus with intelligence, integrity and courage. 
I wish her well and I thank my colleagues for the opportunity to serve 
them as chairman.
  Mr. Speaker, I celebrate the Congressional Black Caucus during the 
115th Congress.
                          



Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Fatima Comets Boys Cross Country team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2 Cross Country Championship.
   This team and Coach Marc Bridges should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Fatima Comets Boys Cross 
Country team for a job well done.
                        


Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, this report is submitted in satisfaction of 
Section 3 of the Committee on House Administration Resolution dated 
December 19, 2017.
  The Committee on House Administration directed the Chief 
Administrative Officer on January 8, 2018 to develop a strategy to 
procure and deliver Workplace Rights and Responsibilities Education 
training for the House of Representatives.
  The Committee approved the proposed curriculum and delivery schedule 
on April 27, 2018. The curriculum met all requirements set forth by 
Committee resolution. Delivery began on April 30, 2018 and continued 
through December 31, 2018.
  The Committee is satisfied that all current eligible Members and 
employees of the House have completed the required training in 2018, as 
administered by the Chief Administrative Officer.
                        


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Festus Tigers Boys Cross Country team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Boys Class 3 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   This team and Coach Bryant Wright should be commended for all of 
their hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the 
state championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Festus Tigers Boys Cross 
Country team for a job well done.
                        


Ms. MENG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the 115th 
Congress. While I am disappointed that the current spending impasse 
could not be resolved this Congress, I am hopeful that we will remedy 
our current predicament after the swearing-in of the new Democratic 
majority. The historic House takeover by a once-in-a-generation 
incoming Democratic class of lawmakers is nothing short of inspiring. I 
wish them all the luck in the world.
  This Congress, Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to be named the 8th Most 
Effective Democrat in the House by the Center for Effective Lawmaking 
at the University of Virginia. It was also an honor to receive 100 
percent ratings from the ACLU, the Human Rights Campaign, and Planned 
Parenthood. I am proud of the fact that, according to Govtrack, the 
legislation I introduced in 2017--we are still awaiting the results for 
2018--placed me in the top 10 percent of all Members with respect to 
the number of cosponsors secured, and the top 20 percent of all Members 
with respect to the number of bipartisan cosponsors secured.
  Additionally, Mr. Speaker, it was also a pleasure serving on the 
House Appropriations Committee this Congress, particularly under the 
leadership of my good friend, Ranking Member Lowey. The work that went 
into crafting legislation totaling more than $1.2 trillion in 
discretionary spending each year was staggering, as was my own learning 
curve on my two subcommittees--the Commerce, Justice, Science 
Subcommittee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. 
Drafting measures on those subcommittees that accounted for a combined 
$109 billion in discretionary federal spending each year was an 
unforgettable experience, as was securing $1.4 billion for personal 
spending priorities.
  I would like to take this opportunity to include in the Record some 
of the legislative
achievements that were signed into law this Congress as the result of 
work performed by my office on behalf of the people of the Sixth 
Congressional District of New York:
       1) H.R. 423, the ``Anti-Spoofing Act of 2017'', which 
     criminalizes acts of spoofing (the practice of disguising 
     one's phone number) during the commission of crimes, as 
     section 503 of Division P of Public Law 115-141, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       2) H.R. 7043, the ``Better Airplanes Noise Standards Act'', 
     which requires the Federal Aviation Administration to 
     complete evaluations of alternative aircraft noise 
     measurement metrics within one year, as section 173 of Public 
     Law 115-254, the ``FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018'' (via 
     amendment no. 90 to H.R. 4).
       3) H.R. 7044, the ``Unmanned Aircraft Systems Collegiate 
     Training Initiative Program Act'', which authorized the 
     Collegiate Training Initiative Program for Unmanned Aircraft 
     Systems, as section 632 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'' (submitted as amendment no. 66 
     to H.R. 4 to the House Rules Committee).
       4) H.R. 7045, the ``Aircraft Avionics Systems Cybersecurity 
     Act'', which requires the Federal Aviation Administration to 
     consider and address cybersecurity concerns for avionics 
     systems--including software components, as section 506 of 
     Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018'' 
     (submitted as amendment no. 65 to H.R. 4 to the House Rules 
     Committee).
       5) H.R. 754, the ``Anwar Sadat Centennial Celebration 
     Act'', which I co-authored with Rep. Chris Stewart from Utah, 
     awarded a Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat and 
     permitted it to be presented to his widow, Jehan Sadat, and a 
     representative of the government of Egypt.
       6) Section 407 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which requires the Government 
     Accountability Office to review airlines' training policies 
     for employees and contractors regarding racial, ethnic, and 
     religious nondiscrimination and requires the Secretary of 
     Transportation to develop and disseminate best practices 
     based upon the findings of the report (via amendment no. 37 
     to H.R. 4).
       7) Section 182 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which requires the FAA to 
     review the North Shore Helicopter Route to address the noise 
     impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, 
     and assess alternative routes that include an all-water route 
     over the Atlantic Ocean (via Zeldin, Meng, Suozzi H. AMDT. 
     568 to H.R. 4).
       8) Section 188 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which requires a new FAA 
     study--in addition to ongoing studies--of alternative 
     aircraft noise metrics (via Panetta, Meng, et al. amendment 
     no. 62 to H.R. 4).
       9) Section 612 of Public Law 115-254, the ``FAA 
     Reauthorization Act of 2018'', which created the FAA Women in 
     Aviation Advisory Board to promote organizations and programs 
     that provide education, training, mentorship, outreach, and 
     recruitment of women into the aviation industry (via Esty, 
     Meng, et al. amendment no. 58 to H.R. 4).
       10) Section 558 of Public Law 115-91, the ``National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018'', which 
     improved childcare services for military families by 
     enhancing the hours of operation at DOD childcare centers and 
     established childcare coordinators for military installations 
     (via amendment no. 39 to H.R. 2810).
       11) Section 544 of Public Law 115-91, the ``National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018'', which 
     extended the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, a suicide 
     prevention and resilience initiative for members of the 
     National Guard and Reserves, for two years (submitted as 
     amendment no. 429 to H.R. 2810 to the House Rules Committee).
       12) $500 million for U.S.-Israel missile defense programs 
     funded by Section 8070 of Public Law 115-245, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019''. These funds will be 
     used for the Iron Dome defense system, David's Sling system 
     components, and the Arrow-3 system.
       13) $373.8 million for Israeli Cooperative Programs with 
     the U.S. Department of Defense, which appears on page 85D of 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement for Division C of H.R. 1625, 
     the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       14) $269 million for USAID Biodiversity Conservation 
     Programs, which is provided in section 7060(c)(2)(A) of 
     Public Law 115-141, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
     2018''.
       15) $130 million for small business development under 
     Entrepreneurial Development Programs provided for on page 233 
     of Public Law 115-141, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
     2018''. This increase in funding will allow the establishment 
     of a new Small Business Development Center (SBDC) to be 
     opened in New York's Sixth Congressional District.
       16) $90.7 million for programs to combat wildlife 
     trafficking, which appears on page 68 of the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement for Division K accompanying Public Law 
     115-141, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       17) $1 million for programs to combat anti-Semitism abroad, 
     which appears on page 44 of the Joint Explanatory Statement 
     for Division K accompanying Public Law 115-141, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''.
       18) $300,000 increase for the Smithsonian Asian Pacific 
     American Center, which appears on page 56 of the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement for Division G accompanying Public Law 
     115-31, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017''. These 
     funds more than tripled the Center's resources to develop 
     programs and expand outreach to promote a better 
     understanding of the Asian Pacific American experience.
       19) A conference report provision accompanying Public Law 
     115-91, the ``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2018'', which directs DOD to review the design, 
     material, sizing, price, availability, quality, and utility 
     of maternity uniforms for pregnant members of the military 
     (consistent with amendment no. 28 to H.R. 2810).
       20) Page 26 of House Report 115-673--''Veterans who 
     participated in nuclear clean-up activities in Palomares, 
     Spain and on Enewetak Atoll.'' (Incorporated by reference 
     into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, 
     the ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''). This provision directs the VA to determine, using 
     scientific and medical data, whether 38 CFR 3.309(d) should 
     be modified in order to allow veterans who participated in 
     nuclear clean-up activities in Palomares, Spain and on 
     Enewetak Atoll in the Marshall Islands to be presumed to be 
     exposed to radiation for disability benefits purposes.
       21) Page 27 of House Report 115-673--
     ``Cholangiocarcinoma.'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, the 
     ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''). This provision directs the VA to report to Congress 
     on its current research into this rare cancer that appears in 
     Vietnam veterans at higher rates than the general population, 
     and to explain why less than one-third of the claims for 
     service connected disabilities related to the disease have 
     been granted by the VA.
       22) Page 36 of House Report 115-673--``Female medical 
     staff.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, the ``Energy 
     and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and 
     Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision 
     directs the VA to report to Congress on the number of female 
     health care professionals hired by the Veterans Health 
     Administration each year over the last five years, including 
     information pertaining to job type and employment location, 
     so that additional female health care professionals can be 
     hired in order to provide the growing number of female 
     veterans greater opportunities to choose the gender of their 
     health care provider.
       23) Page 93 of House Report 115-697--``Carbon Capture.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, the ``Energy and Water, 
     Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans 
     Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs 
     the Department of Energy to ``explore carrying out a prize 
     competition to advance the research, development, or 
     commercialization of technologies that capture, sequester, or 
     utilize carbon.''
       24) Page 97 of House Report 115-697--``Energy Information 
     Administration, Puerto Rico.'' (Incorporated by reference 
     into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 5895, 
     the ``Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military 
     Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''). This provision urges the Energy Information 
     Administration to publish information for Puerto Rico and 
     other territories in its state profiles section in a manner 
     that is consistent with the information furnished for states.
       25) Page 150 of House Report 115-862--``Free Application 
     for Federal Student Aid.'' (Incorporated by reference into 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision 
     encourages the Secretary of Education to translate the Free 
     Application for Federal Student Aid into additional foreign 
     languages.
       26) Page 55 of House Report 115-862--``Gynecologic Cancer 
     Clinical Trials.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision 
     directs the National Cancer Institute to provide Congress 
     with information on access to gynecologic cancer clinical 
     trials in order to increase future access to these life-
     saving trials.
       27) Page 156 of House Report 115-862-''Data for Puerto 
     Rico.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     National Center for Education Statistics to collect and 
     publish data for Puerto Rico in the same manner it collects 
     and publishes data for states so that Puerto Rico has 
     meaningful data that can be used to compare its students' 
     academic progress with students across the rest of the United 
     States.
       28) Page 58 of House Report 115-862--``Hepatitis B (1).'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act,
     2019''). This provision directs the National Institute of 
     Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) to pursue 
     improved treatments and a cure for Hepatitis B and to report 
     to Congress on its progress in the 2020 Congressional Budget 
     Justification submitted by the agency.
       29) Page 70 of House Report 115-862--``Hepatitis B (2).'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities 
     (NIMHD) to fund research into model programs that increase 
     Hepatitis awareness, knowledge, testing, and treatment among 
     disproportionately impacted communities such as Asian 
     Americans and Pacific Islanders.
       30) Page 37 of House Report 115-862--``Viral Hepatitis.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the ``Department of Defense 
     and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to report to 
     Congress within 90 days its plan to achieve the goal of 
     elimination of Hepatitis B and C--particularly within opioid 
     users.
       31) Page 67 of House Report 115-232--``Feminine Hygiene 
     Cosmetics.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     strongly urges the FDA to issue appropriate guidance to 
     consumers on the use of unsafe colorants by manufacturers in 
     feminine hygiene cosmetic products.
       32) Page 16 of House Report 115-769--``Minority Outreach 
     and Officer Accessions.'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 6157, the 
     ``Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, 
     and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''). This provision directs the 
     Secretary of Defense to improve diversity among military 
     officers.
       33) Page 285 of House Report 115-219--``Military Medical 
     Professionals and the Department of Veterans Affairs.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated 
     Appropriations Act, 2018'') . This provision directs DOD to 
     work with the VA to encourage DOD medical professionals who 
     are being discharged or are separating from the military to 
     pursue employment with the Veterans Health Administration.
       34) Page 30 of House Report 115-230--``Continuing 
     Authorities Program (CAP).'' (Incorporated by reference into 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     encourages the Army Corps of Engineers to pursue projects to 
     address ice floes in regions comprised of cities whose 
     historic flooding has been predominately caused by winter 
     snowmelt--cities such as those in Western and upstate New 
     York.
       35) Page 83 of the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying 
     H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''--
     ``Asian Pacific American Initiatives and Outreach.'' This 
     provision continues the previous year's Congressional support 
     for the Smithsonian Institution's Asian American and Pacific 
     Islander outreach and programming.
       36) Page 17 of House Report 115-199--``Expanded 
     Availability of Tours in Foreign Languages'' (Incorporated by 
     reference into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying 
     H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). 
     This provision encourages the Capitol Visitor Center to 
     explore the feasibility of making listening devices used for 
     Capitol tours available in additional foreign languages.
       37) Page 55 of House Report 115-188--``VA Retail 
     Immunization Care Coordination Program'' (Incorporated by 
     reference into the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying 
     H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). 
     This provision encourages the VA to build upon the success of 
     the flu immunization program at retail locations and to 
     expand the program to also cover immunizations such as 
     pneumococcal and zoster vaccines.
       38) Page 14 of House Report 115-253--``Democracy, Human 
     Rights, and Labor (DRL)'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     urges the Secretary of State to appoint a Special Envoy to 
     Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism as quickly as possible given 
     the global rise in anti-Semitic incidents.
       39) Page 49 of House Report 115-253--``Water, Sanitation, 
     and Hygiene (WASH)'' (Incorporated by reference into the 
     Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     directs the USAID Administrator to submit a report to 
     Congress within 90 days outlining how the provision of 
     feminine hygiene products is included in both the design and 
     implementation of WASH programs. This report will allow 
     additional directed work to be pursued to address this 
     important issue in the lives of vulnerable women and girls.
       40) Page 14 of House Report 115-237--``Noise Health Effects 
     Research'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     resulted from a joint Quiet Skies Caucus (which I am proud to 
     have co-founded and chaired) appropriations request letter. 
     It directs the FAA to continue to prioritize the research 
     being conducted at the Center of Excellence for Alternative 
     Jet Fuel and Environment, the Aviation Sustainability Center 
     (ASCENT) on the impact of aviation noise on both sleep and 
     cardiovascular health.
  As Appropriations Taskforce Chair for the Congressional Asian Pacific 
American Caucus (CAPAC), I was proud to lead joint appropriations 
request letters for the Caucus that resulted in the following 
provisions being signed into law:
       41) Page 31 of House Report 115-231--``Profiling.'' 
     (Incorporated by reference into the Joint Explanatory 
     Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the ``Consolidated 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision expresses 
     Congress's concern about reports of Asian Americans and 
     Pacific Islanders being profiled by Department of Justice 
     investigators and prosecutors on the basis of race and 
     national origin, including in espionage and trade secret 
     cases. It directs an Office of Inspector General 
     investigation be conducted into the matter.
       42) Page 32 of House Report 115-231--``Civil Rights 
     Division, Voting Section.'' (Incorporated by reference into 
     the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     requires the submission of a report by the Voting Section of 
     the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice to 
     Congress containing the number of section 203 cases 
     investigated in the past year broken out by language, 
     including the number of such investigations opened and the 
     number closed--as well as the reasons for closure.
       43) Page 15 of House Report 115-234--``CDFIs in U.S. 
     Insular Areas.'' (Incorporated by reference into the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the 
     ``Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018''). This provision 
     notes the absence of Community Development Financial 
     Institutions (CDFI) serving American Samoa, the Northern 
     Mariana Islands, and other insular areas, and recommends that 
     the CDFI Fund use its Capacity Building Initiative to expand 
     service to these areas.
  Additionally, I am proud to have secured passage of the following 
legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives prior to today, 
and will continue to fight to secure passage of these provisions into 
law in the future:
       1) H.R. 382, the ``100 Years of Women in Congress Act'', 
     which seeks to rename the Women and Minorities in STEM Fields 
     Program at the U.S. Department of Agriculture the ``Jeannette 
     Rankin Women and Minorities in STEM Fields Program'' in honor 
     of the 100 year anniversary of the election of the first 
     woman to Congress--Jeannette Rankin.
       2) Section 1(5) of H.R. 6846, ``To require the United 
     States Postal Service to establish new Zip codes, and for 
     other purposes,'' which would designate a single, unique ZIP 
     Code for Glendale, New York. This section stems from my bill 
     H.R. 803, ``To direct the United States Postal Service to 
     designate a single, unique ZIP Code for Glendale, New York'', 
     an effort that originated with former-Representative, and 
     Vice Presidential candidate, Geraldine Ferraro almost 40 
     years ago.
       3) Section 7(a)(2) of H.R. 6199, ``Restoring Access to 
     Medication and Modernizing Health Savings Accounts Act of 
     2018'', which would permit the purchase of menstrual hygiene 
     products with health flexible spending accounts.
       4) Section 504 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     allow any member of the armed forces who gives birth to be 
     exempt from deployment for up to 12 months following 
     childbirth.
       5) Section 566 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     require the Secretary of Defense to permit military parents 
     flexible (non-continuous) maternity and paternity leave, 
     allowing this time off to be spread out over time instead of 
     being used all at once.
       6) Section 717 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     authorize the Secretary of Defense to develop a burn patient 
     transfer system. This system would include military and 
     civilian burn centers that could be used in mass casualty 
     events.
       7) Section 220F of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     authorize the Jet Noise Reduction Program within the U.S. 
     Navy's Office of Naval Research in order to reduce noise 
     produced by high performance military jets.
       8) Section 595 of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', which would 
     require the Department of Defense to create exit surveys on 
     attrition levels for members of the military in order to 
     better understand why attrition rates are higher for women 
     than for men.
       9) Section 921(b)(3) of H.R. 5515, the ``John S. McCain 
     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'', 
     which sought to add oversight responsibilities to the DOD 
     Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Policy and 
     Oversight Council. The newly created Council currently has no 
     oversight requirement in its mandate. The Council will
     be responsible for overseeing the research, development, and 
     deployment of artificial intelligence and autonomous machines 
     used by the military. The provision was cosponsored by Rep. 
     Darren Soto of Florida.
       10) Section 3(a)(7) of H.R. 1638, the ``Iranian Leadership 
     Asset Transparency Act'', which would require an assessment 
     of the effectiveness of U.S. economic sanctions against Iran.
       11) Section 2 of H.R. 1367, ``To improve the authority of 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain 
     physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs and for other purposes'', which would assist the VA 
     Secretary in filling Veterans Health Administration positions 
     for which there are severe staffing shortages. Under current 
     law, the Inspector General (IG) of the VA must issue an 
     annual report on which positions within the agency are 
     severely understaffed. The VA Secretary is then granted 
     expedited hiring authority to fill those positions. This 
     provision would have permitted the IG to report on additional 
     shortages than those currently allowed by law so that the VA 
     Secretary could fill those positions more quickly as well.
       12) Section 13 of H.R. 1367, ``To improve the authority of 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain 
     physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs and for other purposes'', which would require the 
     Secretary of the VA to establish a program that encourages 
     members of the Armed Forces serving as health professionals 
     to pursue jobs with the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) 
     upon their discharge or separation from the military.
  Mr. Speaker, there is no greater honor than serving my neighbors, 
family, and friends in the United States Congress. I thank them for the 
opportunity during the 115th Congress. I wish you well in your 
retirement
                          



Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Fatima Girls Cross Country team for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Girls Class 2 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   This team and Coach Bridges should be commended for all their hard 
work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Fatima Girls Cross Country 
team for a job well done.
                        


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Maxwell McDaniel of the Festus Tigers for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Boys Class 3 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   Maxwell and Coach Bryant Wright should be commended for all of their 
hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing Maxwell McDaniel for a job well 
done.
                        


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Logan Shelfaut of the Francis Howell North 
Knights for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2 State Diving 
Championship.
   Logan and Coach Chris Pape should be commended for all of their hard 
work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing Logan Shelfaut for a job well 
done.
                        


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating the Ft. Zumwalt South Bulldogs Boys Soccer 
team for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 3 State Soccer Championship.
   This team and Coach Jim Layne should be commended for all of their 
hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing the Ft. Zumwalt South Bulldogs 
Boys Soccer team for a job well done.
                        


Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring remembrance to 
a great Iowan--Dale Golightly.
  Dale was a man who loved and worked hard for his family. He had a 
huge and compassionate heart who brought a quick quip and smile to all 
he met. Dale was a man of integrity who gave sage advice and wisdom who 
all could trust.
  When you met or talked to Dale, you felt special. You knew you had a 
true friend in Dale Golightly, he always had your back.
  Dale loved his wife, Vera, dearly. He was devoted to his children--
Brad, Randy, Dan, and Jean. His grandchildren and great-grandchildren 
brought him great joy. They will all carry on the good name and legacy 
he left them--a legacy of loving God, country, nature and agriculture, 
the friend, and the stranger.
  May God bless his soul. May Dale forever rest in his Saviour's arms 
in heaven.
       Sanford Dale Golightly was born June 18, 1933 at home in 
     Madison County, Iowa, the son of Jerome and Ethel (Reigle) 
     Golightly. He graduated from Van Meter High School in 1952 
     and served in the United States Army during the Korean 
     Conflict. He married Vera Jamison on June 19, 1955 at the 
     Trinity Lutheran Church in Van Meter.
       Dale came home from the service and started farming, never 
     really retiring. He was a member of the Trinity Lutheran 
     Church where he held various offices. He was on the Van Meter 
     School Board, the Booneville Co-op Board and the Madison 
     County Fair Board. Dale was a collector and enjoyed attending 
     flea markets and auctions. He enjoyed fishing with his 
     children, gardening and watching Iowa State basketball and 
     football. Above all else, Dale cherished spending time with 
     family, especially with his grandchildren.
       Dale died Tuesday, November 13, 2018 at Spurgeon Manor in 
     Dallas Center. He was 85 years old.
       Dale is survived by his wife of 63 years, Vera Golightly of 
     Van Meter; four children, Brad (Shelly) Golightly of Perry, 
     Randy (Anna) Golightly of Van Meter, Dan (Michelle) Golightly 
     of Waukee, and Jean (J.R.) Hall of Urbandale; five 
     grandchildren, Jana Ferguson, Austin (Brittney) Golightly, 
     Karlee Golightly, Jason (Angela) Mickelson and Nathan 
     Mickelson; three great-grandchildren, extended family and 
     friends.
       He was preceded in death by his parents, Jerome and Ethel 
     Golightly and a grandson, Bret Golightly



Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Kendall Haller of the Fatima Comets for 
winning the 2018 Missouri Girls Class 2 State Cross Country 
Championship.
   Kendall and Coach Marc Bridges should be commended for all of their 
hard work throughout this past year and for bringing home the state 
championship to their school and community.
   I ask you to join me in recognizing Kendall Haller for a job well 
done.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Police 
Creating Accountability by Making Effective Recording Act, also known 
as the Police CAMERA Act, a bill I introduced today with several of my 
colleagues. If enacted, this bill would establish a grant program to 
assist state and local law enforcement with the deployment of body-worn 
camera programs.
  Safe communities require good police.
  Good policing requires public trust.
  Unfortunately, in far too many communities, that trust has become 
strained.
  In the wake of recent police shootings, our nation is facing sobering 
questions about the basic fairness of our criminal justice system. We 
face sobering questions about race.
  Over the past several years, the wider availability of video has 
shined a much-needed light on police use of deadly force. Without video 
of places like North Charleston, Staten Island, Chicago, Cleveland, 
Baton Rouge, Tulsa and Falcon Heights, Minnesota the world might never 
know what occurred.
  The more we see of these types of videos, the more we are left to 
wonder about all the incidents that were not recorded.
  Had there been better video of the shooting of Darrius Stewart in my 
home town of Memphis, it might have helped to better inform the grand 
jury that, sadly, refused to indict the police officer who was 
responsible.
  Justice is supposed to be blind, but it is not supposed to be blind 
to the facts.
  Police body cameras can help provide evidence and restore some much-
needed trust.
  They can protect both police and citizens alike.
  The vast majority of police are well meaning, dedicated public 
servants, and we depend upon them to keep us safe from criminals. They 
have dangerous jobs, as we have seen all too frequently.
  But the fact remains some officers go beyond the law in a callous 
disregard for due process. Their actions damage the public trust that 
is essential for good police to be able to serve and protect our 
communities.
  Police body cameras, alone, won't solve this problem. But they are an 
important step in the right direction.
  I urge all members to help pass the Police CAMERA Act quickly.
                        


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a great 
soldier, dedicated husband, loving father, and loyal friend to many, 
Mr. Ralph William Hall. Sadly, Mr. Hall passed away on December 18, 
2018. His funeral service will be held on January 5, 2019 at 11 am at 
St. Timothy Episcopal Church located at 3601 Alabama Avenue SE, 
Washington, D.C. 20020.
  Mr. Ralph William Hall was born on January 25, 1919, in Metcalf, 
Georgia to the union of Adam and Maggie Franklin Hall. He was the 
oldest of five children. At an early age, he moved to Thomasville, 
Georgia where he lived with his parents and maternal grandmother. 
During this time, he learned to fish, hunt, and perform farm chores. 
But, it was also during this time that his unbreakable bond with God 
was cemented. He joined St. Mark AME Church and attended every Sunday. 
He also attended Allen Normal School, a private Congregational school 
where he learned self-discipline and bible study.
  A diligent student, Ralph graduated from Douglas High School, where 
he served as Senior Class President. He went on to continue his 
education at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
where he earned a degree in Mathematics in 1941. Ralph was drafted into 
the United States Army while in college, but was allowed to complete 
his degree requirements, then served faithfully for five years. He was 
discharged in 1946. He was initiated into the brotherhood of Omega Psi 
Phi Fraternity, Inc. and was a life member for 80 years until his 
passing.
  Following his discharge from the Army, his life would change forever 
as he was joined in holy matrimony with his college sweetheart, 
Virginia (Ginny) Holder.
  He moved his new family to Washington, D.C. and embarked on a career 
with the Federal Government that lasted for 35 years. During this time, 
two children were born to this union, Douglas and Angela.
  Sadly, Ginny became ill and passed in 1962. Mr. Hall was then left 
with the awesome task of being a single father. However, as with other 
challenges in his life, he was more than ready to meet this one. His 
strong and unwavering faith in God led him to become a member of the 
Jones United Methodist Church, where he proudly served as Chairman of 
the Trustee Board, where he led the completion of the Education 
Building along with serving as the Church School Superintendent.
  Another major life changing event for him occurred when he was 
introduced to Thelma Johnson by a dear Army Buddy and his wife, Milton 
and Evelyn Serailee. This led to their marriage in 1965 and the new 
family moved to Hillcrest area in Southeast Washington, D.C.
  Ralph Hall continued his love for service to humankind as a member of 
the Hillcrest Civic Association and as PTA President at Anne Beers 
Elementary School. In 1966, he and Thelma joined St. Timothy's 
Episcopal Church where he served many roles to include: Lay Reader, 
Diocensanis Delegate, Member of the Men of St. Timothy's (Most), and 
the Brotherhood of St. Andrews. He truly dedicated his life to the 
service of others. And was a constant example of sincerity, loyalty, 
and devotion to family.
  Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along with the 730,000 
constituents of the Second Congressional District of Georgia, salute 
and honor the life of Mr. Ralph William Hall. I ask my colleagues in 
the House of Representatives to join us in extending our deepest 
condolences to the Hall family during this difficult time of 
bereavement. We pray that that they will be consoled and comforted by 
an abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks and months 
ahead.
                        


Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I am pleased to re-introduce H.R. 40, 
the Commission to Study and Develop Reparation proposals for African-
Americans Act. This legislation was first introduced by retired Member 
of Congress John Conyers of Michigan in 1989, and was intended to 
examine the institution of slavery in the colonies and the United 
States from 1619 to the present, and further recommend appropriate 
remedies.
  Since the initial introduction of this legislation, its proponents 
have made substantial progress in elevating the discussion of 
reparations and reparatory justice at the national level and joining 
the mainstream international debate on the issues. Though some have 
tried to deflect the importance of these conversations by focusing on 
individual monetary compensation, the real issue is whether and how 
this nation can come to grips with the legacy of slavery that still 
infects current society. Through legislation, resolutions, news, and 
litigation, we are moving closer to making more strides in the movement 
toward reparations.
  Today there are more people at the table--more activists, more 
scholars, more CEO's, more state and local officials, and more Members 
of Congress. However, despite this progress and the election of the 
first American President of African descent, the legacy of slavery 
lingers heavily in this nation. While we have focused on the social 
effects of slavery and segregation, its continuing economic 
implications remain largely ignored by mainstream analysis. These 
economic issues are the root cause of many critical issues in the 
African-American community today, such as education, healthcare and 
criminal justice policy, including policing practices. The call for 
reparations represents a commitment to entering a constructive dialogue 
on the role of slavery and racism in shaping present-day conditions in 
our community and American society.
  Over the last several years, we have had a distinguished academic and 
activist panel from
the National African American Reparations Commission dive into some of 
the most salient points in the reparations discussion. I am supporting 
this effort by continuing to hold the annual reparations retrospective 
at the Annual Legislative Conference of the Congressional Black Caucus.
  I believe that H.R. 40 is a crucial piece of legislation because it 
goes beyond exploring the economic implications of slavery and 
segregation. It is a holistic bill in the sense that it seeks to 
establish a commission to also examine the moral and social 
implications of slavery. In short, the Commission aims to study the 
impact of slavery and continuing discrimination against African-
Americans, resulting directly and indirectly from slavery to 
segregation to the desegregation process and the present day. The 
commission would also make recommendations concerning any form of 
apology and compensation to begin the long delayed process of atonement 
for slavery.
  With the over criminalization and policing of black bodies, a 
reoccurring issue in African-American communities, I believe this 
conversation is both relevant and crucial to restoring trust in 
governmental institutions in many communities. As in years past, I 
welcome open and constructive discourse on H.R. 40 and the creation of 
this commission in the 116th Congress. Though the times and 
circumstance may change, the principle problem of slavery continues to 
weigh heavily on this country. A federal commission can help us reach 
into this dark past and bring us into a brighter future.
                          



Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Build 
America Act, legislation that will provide $10 billion annually for 
merit-based infrastructure grants across the country. For years, House 
Democrats have called for a dramatic investment in infrastructure, and 
for years, these call calls have gone unanswered. I am hopeful that 
this will be the year that we finally make the investments we need. I 
am proud to offer my own legislation today--not for a massive, all-
encompassing infrastructure package--but rather, for a common sense 
expansion of successful programs based on need and merit that will 
ensure we put money towards the greatest infrastructure needs 
regardless of any additional package passed in the House.
  My legislation will significantly increase the size and scope of two 
existing infrastructure grant programs, the Capital Investment Grant 
Program (CIG), also known as New Starts/Small Starts, and the BUILD 
Grant Program, formerly known as the Transportation Investment 
Generating Economic Recovery Grant Program, or TIGER Grants. These 
programs have been immensely successful in the past, assisting rural 
and urban communities prioritize their own needs. Each program requires 
matching funds from those seeking assistance, making them smart and 
effective avenues for leveraging federal funding to make a real impact 
across the country.
  My bill takes these programs out of the annual appropriations 
process. Instead, it establishes them as mandatory programs with 
permanent and expanded funding streams totaling more than $10 billion 
annually.
  This expansion will be welcome news to the thousands of communities 
like those I represent. Consider this, Madam Speaker: since
2009, Congress has dedicated more than $5.1 billion for multiple rounds 
of TIGER funding. In FY2015 alone, the program received $10.1 billion 
in applications. That's twice the total amount of funding over a 10 
year period in just a single fiscal year. The process is competitive, 
and it allows the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to reward 
applicants that exceed eligibility criteria and demonstrate commitments 
to their projects.
  By increasing these funding levels and removing the programs from the 
annual appropriations process, we will take the guesswork and 
uncertainty out of the programs. This in turn will allow communities 
around the country to submit funding requests for projects of national, 
regional, or metropolitan-area significance, including the construction 
and repair of roads, bridges, and tunnels, the installation of high 
speed internet, revitalization of drinking water infrastructure, and 
the construction and expansion of fixed-guideway public transportation 
systems, including subways, light rail, commuter rail, and bus rapid 
transit (BRT).
  Madam Speaker, we have talked about prioritizing a large-scale 
infrastructure package for years. Last Congress, Congressional 
Democrats unveiled a trillion-dollar plan to make these investments and 
create tens of thousands of jobs. However, like so many other 
proposals, it was rejected out of hand by the Republican Majority. We 
need to get serious.
  Every four years, the American Society of Civil Engineers' issues a 
``Report Card'' for America's Infrastructure. The report depicts the 
condition and performance of American infrastructure, assigning letter 
grades based on the physical condition and needed investments for 
improvement across 16 major infrastructure categories. The most recent 
report card was issued last two years ago. Among the national rankings, 
transit systems were rated a D- and roads were rated a D.
  Dams: D.
  Drinking water: D.
  Inland waterways: D.
  Levees: D.
  We need to move this process forward. I urge my colleagues to 
consider my bill without delay, so that our country can begin making 
the investments it desperately needs.
                          



Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Police 
Training and Independent Review Act, a bill I introduced today with 
colleague Lacy Clay of Missouri.
  If enacted, the Police Training and Independent Review Act would help 
ensure the independent investigation and prosecution of law enforcement 
officers in cases involving their use of deadly force. It would also 
help ensure that law enforcement officers receive appropriate training.
  America received a wakeup call in Ferguson, Missouri. We received 
another in Staten Island, New York.
  We received yet another in Ohio, South Carolina, Illinois, Minnesota, 
Louisiana and Oklahoma.
  Our nation faces sobering questions about the basic fairness of our 
criminal justice system. And we face sobering questions about race. 
These questions simply cannot be ignored.
  For too many, for too long, justice has seemed too lacking.
  President Obama's Commission on 21st Century Policing suggested 
several common sense reforms, including the use of independent 
prosecutors for police-involved civilian deaths, as well as additional 
training for law enforcement officers.
  Unfortunately, Congress has yet to act on these recommendations.
  We need to stop asking local prosecutors to investigate the same law 
enforcement officers with whom they work so closely, and whose 
relationships they rely upon to perform their daily responsibilities. 
Prosecutors also often seek the support of their local police when they 
run for reelection.
  This is an inherent conflict of interest, and if we are serious about 
restoring a sense of fairness and justice, we must remove this conflict 
immediately.
  To be sure, the vast majority of prosecutors and law enforcement 
officers are well meaning, dedicated public servants, and we depend 
upon them to keep us safe from criminals. And they have dangerous jobs, 
as we have seen all too frequently.
  But the fact remains that some officers go beyond the law in a 
callous disregard for due process. When it comes to investigating, and 
potentially prosecuting, these actions, there is often a perception of 
unfairness, and that perception poisons the public trust.
  That is bad for law enforcement as well as citizens, making their 
work more dangerous.
  The Police Training and Independent Review Act would give states an 
incentive to use independent prosecutors when police use of deadly 
force results in a civilian death. It would also give states and 
incentive to provide training to police to help them better understand 
the racial and ethnic diversity of the communities they serve, as well 
as how best to work with individuals who are disabled or mentally ill.
  If states use independent prosecutors and provide appropriate 
training, they would become eligible for additional federal funding.
  I urge my colleagues to help pass this legislation quickly, and help 
restore some much needed faith in our criminal justice system.
  I want to thank my colleague, Lacy Clay for his partnership on this 
bill. He is a tireless advocate on these issues, and I am honored to 
work with him. I also want to thank Senator Tammy Duckworth for her 
leadership on this legislation, and look forward to her introducing a 
Senate companion soon.
                        


Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Paul 
Stewart as he is inducted by the USA Hockey Association into the USA 
Hockey Hall of Fame.
  Mr. Stewart was born and raised in Dorchester, Massachusetts, where 
he got his first pair of skates at age six, after borrowing his 
sister's figure skates too many times. He rose to playing in the 
National Hockey League for the Quebec Nordiques.
  Transitioning from a career playing in the NHL to paving the way for 
American referees, Mr. Stewart became the first American to both play 
and officiate in the National Hockey League. Following in the footsteps 
of his father and grandfather, he officiated his first game on March 
27, 1986 in his hometown rink, the Boston Garden.
  Players respected him, as he had a great respect for the players. He 
set an example for the future of NHL officiating and a new pathway for 
future referees. A testament to his strength and commitment came in the 
middle of his career, when he beat cancer and was back officiating 
within a year of his diagnosis. Outside of the regular season, Mr. 
Stewart officiated 49 Stanley Cup playoff games and two NHL All-Star 
games.
  In 2003, Mr. Stewart became the first American born referee to 
officiate 1,000 NHL regular-season games. He finished out officiating 
his 1,010th and final game right where it all started, at home in 
Boston surrounded by family and friends.
  After his trailblazing career on the ice, Mr. Stewart served as an 
ambassador for the NHL's Hockey Fights Cancer campaign. He also went on 
to be the director of the Bill Stewart Foundation, raising money for 
inner city youth sports, and the ECAC director of officiating, now 
working to break down barriers for women in the NHL. Following in the 
family profession, his two sons, McCauley and Maxwell, are both 
officiating hockey.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Mr. Paul Stewart for his 
trailblazing efforts that have changed the future of the sport, and who 
now joins his grandfather in the USA Hockey Hall of Fame. I ask that my 
colleagues join me in recognizing his hard work and dedication.
                        


Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the retirement of one of Mississippi's most devoted citizens and public 
servants, the Honorable Judge John Andrew Hatcher, Jr. Judge Hatcher, a 
native of Sunflower, Mississippi, is retiring after a long and 
distinguished career.
  Upon graduation from Drew High School in 1966, Judge Hatcher 
continued his education at Delta State University. After graduating in 
1969, he attended the University of Mississippi School of Law where he 
received his Juris Doctorate. This began Judge Hatcher's impeccable 
legal career.
  Judge Hatcher began practicing law in Booneville, Mississippi, in 
November 1973. He also took up teaching as he taught a paralegal 
program at Northeast Mississippi Community College. This led to a 
passion advocating for public service. Judge Hatcher served as the vice 
chairman of the Mississippi Council on Children from 1977 to 1979, the 
Housing Specialist with the Governor's Office of Federal, State and 
Local Programs, Division of Housing Coordinator from 1978 to 1979 and 
the Director of Yocona Area Council of Boy Scouts of America from 1979 
to 1980.
  Judge Hatcher went on to serve as the county prosecutor for Prentiss 
County, Mississippi, from 1980 to 1995. He also served as
the city prosecutor for Baldwyn, Mississippi and the city attorney for 
Marietta, Mississippi, from 1991 to 2006. During this time, he also 
began representing Farmington, Mississippi, as the city attorney. More 
recently, Judge Hatcher has served as the Chancery Court Judge of the 
First Chancery Court District of Mississippi for eleven years.
  Judge Hatcher's experiences have helped him serve in several 
leadership roles throughout his community. He was the president of the 
First Judicial District Bar Association. Along with the founding 
incorporator, director and secretary of Booneville-Prentiss County 
Parks, Inc. he currently serves as the founding incorporator, director 
and secretary of Brice's Crossroads National Battlefield Commission 
Inc. He is also the founding incorporator, director, and president of 
Lower Anderson Owners' Association Inc., and is also a very active 
member of Booneville First United Methodist Church currently on the 
pastor-parish relations committee.
  Judge Hatcher has had the love and support of his wife of 49 years, 
Kathy Hatcher. He has selflessly served the people of Mississippi for 
more than forty years. His devotion to God, America and his fellow man 
will always be remembered, and I wish him and his family many years of 
happiness.
                          



Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Streamlined 
and Improved Methods at Polling Locations and Early Voting Act, also 
known as the ``SIMPLE'' Voting Act for short that I introduced today.
  This is a scary time for voting rights. We are witnessing an assault 
on voting rights the likes of which our nation has not seen since the 
passage of the Voting Rights Act in 1965. The President has alleged 
during the 2016 and 2018 election cycles, without evidence, that there 
is widespread voter fraud in our country.
  In the name of protecting Americans from supposed in-person voter 
fraud--a fraud that is virtually non-existent--states have been 
enacting voter ID laws. The real reason for these laws, however, has 
been anything but election integrity. It has been about partisan 
politics and discrimination.
  But don't take my word for it. Take the words of legislators like the 
then-Pennsylvania House Majority Leader who boasted in 2012 that the 
state's newly enacted voter ID law would allow Mitt Romney to win his 
state. While speaking about his legislature's accomplishments, he said, 
``Voter ID, which is going to allow Governor Romney to win the state of 
Pennsylvania: done.''
  Or take the comments of a freshman Republican Wisconsin state 
representative who, while being interviewed ahead of the 2016 election, 
said, ``And now we have photo ID, and I think photo ID is going to make 
a little bit of a difference as well.''
  Or take the word of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit 
which said that provisions of a voter ID law in North Carolina ``target 
African Americans with almost surgical precision[.]'' According to the 
court, the law imposed cures for problems that did not exist, and 
``thus the asserted justifications cannot and do not conceal the 
State's true motivation.''
  The right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy. It is sacred. 
Yet, sadly, we have an ugly history in this nation of efforts to limit 
people's ability to access this constitutional right.
  We need to make it easier for people to vote, not harder, and that is 
why I have introduced this bill today.
  If enacted, the SIMPLE Voting Act would require states to allow early 
voting for federal elections for at least two weeks prior to election 
day, and to the greatest extent possible ensure that polling locations 
are within walking distance of a stop on a public transportation route.
  It would also require that sufficient voting systems, poll workers 
and other election resources are provided, that wait times are fair and 
equitable for all voters across a state, and that no one be required to 
wait longer than one hour to cast a ballot at a polling place.
  None of this should be controversial. This is all common sense, or at 
least should be, to those who to want help more Americans to vote.
  I urge my colleagues to pass this bill.
                        


Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, our men and women in uniform sacrifice to 
keep our nation strong and free. They are well-trained, extraordinarily 
capable and are some of our country's best and brightest. Among their 
ranks is Major Valarie Gandy, who I want to help recognize today for 
her service to the U.S. Army Reserve and Congress.
  Major Valarie Gandy, from Sylacauga, Alabama, was selected for the 
Army's Congressional Fellowship Program in 2015. She served as a 
Defense Fellow in my office from January to December 2016. I, along 
with my staff, greatly benefitted from her expertise, assistance, and 
advisement during the year-long assignment. During that time, Major 
Gandy became a valuable member of my team and earned my confidence to 
serve as my Military Legislative Assistant.
  She served as an advisor on all matters relating to defense, 
intelligence and veteran affairs. She researched and drafted multiple 
pieces of legislation introduced to Congress, including a provision on 
equal survivor benefits for Reserve and National Guard members in the 
2017 National Defense Authorization Act.
  After her time in my office, Major Gandy became a legislative liaison 
for the Office of the Chief of Army Reserve (OCAR) Legislative Affairs 
Division, where she oversaw the military personnel, civilian employee 
and medical portfolios.
  Major Gandy facilitated my visit to the Army Reserve Center in Grand 
Prairie, Texas in 2018. Due to her outreach efforts and effective 
communication, she became a heavily relied upon resource for 
congressional offices. For her congressional contributions and efforts, 
she has been recognized by veterans and military support organizations.
  Our military personnel do not shoulder the stress and sacrifice of 
military service alone, and Major Gandy is no exception. Her husband of 
17-years, Raphael, sons, Ty and Alex, and daughter, Blayze, have stood 
proudly by her side, sacrificing time with their wife and mother while 
she fulfilled her military commitments. To them also, we offer a truly 
heartfelt thank you.
  I proudly recognize Major Valarie Gandy's years of service to our 
nation.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the Fresh Start Act, a 
bill I introduced today.
  If enacted, it would allow certain individuals who have been 
convicted of nonviolent offenses, paid their debt to society, and are 
now law-abiding members of the community to petition courts to have 
their nonviolent conviction expunged from their records.
  A criminal record, even for a minor, nonviolent offense, can pose as 
a barrier to employment, education and housing opportunities--the very 
things necessary to start one's life over.
  This is not only bad for rehabilitated offenders, it is bad for their 
families and for the communities in which they live.
  The Fresh Start Act would give nonviolent offenders a chance to start 
over again, a chance to become productive members of society.
  The bill allows offenders to apply for expungement to the court where 
they were sentenced and allows the United States Attorney for that 
district to submit recommendations to the court. Applicants who are 
denied could reapply once every two years. Once seven years have 
elapsed since an offender has completed their sentence, expungement 
would be automatically granted. However, sex offenders and those who 
commit crimes causing a loss of over $25,000 would not be eligible for 
automatic expungement.
  Finally, the bill would also encourage states to pass their own 
expungement laws for state offenses. States that pass a substantially 
similar law would receive a 5 percent increase in their Byrne Justice 
Assistance Grant funding while those that do not would lose 5 percent 
of their Byrne funds.
  It is one thing to convict someone of a nonviolent crime. It is quite 
another to condemn him to a de facto life sentence for it.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, the fact that after the Michael Brown 
shooting in Ferguson, the Eric Garner killing in Staten Island, and so 
many other, similar tragic events around the country, we still don't 
have reliable statistics about when, where and against whom law 
enforcement uses deadly force is shameful.
  Even former FBI Director James Comey has said it is ``ridiculous that 
[he] can't tell you how many people were shot by the police last week, 
last month, last year.''
  If we are serious about addressing excessive force, we need to know 
the full scope of the problem. For example, how often is deadly force 
used? Are minorities disproportionately the victims? Could other, non-
lethal measures have been taken?
  That is why today I am introducing the National Statistics on Deadly 
Force Transparency Act. It would require collection of this type of 
information. Although a provision of the 1994 Crime Bill requires the 
Attorney General to collect statistics on the use of excessive force, 
there is no enforcement mechanism and the federal government has been 
unable to gather data from many local police departments. Since 
excessive force can be difficult to define, this bill would be limited 
to just instances where deadly force is used.
  Specifically, this legislation would require any law enforcement 
agency receiving federal funds to provide data to the Department of 
Justice on when each instance of deadly force occurred, including the 
race and gender of both the victim and the officer involved. It would 
also require an explanation as to why law enforcement felt deadly force 
was justified and any non-lethal efforts that were taken before deadly 
force was used.
  The Department of Justice would make this data publicly available but 
would not disclose any personally identifying information.
  This is information the public should already have. The fact we don't 
is absurd. I urge my colleagues to fix this problem and pass the 
National Statistics on Deadly Force Transparency Act without delay.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Nationally 
Enhancing the Wellbeing of Babies through Outreach and Research Now 
(NEWBORN) Act, a bill I introduced today.
  In 2016, Tennessee had almost 600 children die before their first 
birthday, including over 120 in Shelby County. Shelby County's infant 
mortality rate was 9.3 per 1,000 live births, which was a 13 percent 
increase over 2015 and significantly higher than both Tennessee's rate 
of 7.4 percent and the national rate of 5.9 percent.
  In the United States, our infant mortality rate is comparable to 
countries like Bosnia, Chile, and Cuba, and an American child is 76 
percent more likely to die before their first birthday in America than 
in 19 other wealthy nations, including Australia, Canada, France, 
Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
  Even more concerning is the racial and ethnic infant mortality 
disparities that continue to exist. In 2016, the rates for infant 
mortality was nearly double for African American infants compared to 
white infants in Tennessee.
  This is unacceptable. That's why I am introducing the NEWBORN Act.
  If enacted, the NEWBORN Act would create infant mortality-focused 
pilot programs in the highest-risk areas of the country.
  The pilot programs would focus on addressing one or more of the top 
five reasons for infant mortality: birth defects, preterm birth and low 
birth weight, sudden infant death syndrome, maternal pregnancy 
complications, and injuries to the infant.
  The NEWBORN Act would specifically encourage the development of 
community-specific practices to promote pre-natal care and community 
outreach and education.
  The current infant mortality rates are tragic, but good practices can 
improve health and save lives.
  I urge my colleagues to help pass this bill.
  
                          



Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
life and legacy of Mr. Paul Elizondo, who passed away on December 27, 
2018. Mr. Elizondo was a fellow San Antonio resident and public servant 
who dedicated his life to others. He is survived by his wife, Irene, 3 
sons and 3 granddaughters. He will be greatly missed.
  Mr. Elizondo studied Music Education at St. Mary's University. In 
1957, he joined the United States Marine Corps and served 2 years. A 
skilled saxophone player, he carried an appreciation for music 
throughout his life. For 14 years, Mr. Elizondo taught music at the San 
Antonio and Edgewood Independent School Districts. He was Director of 
the Paul Elizondo Orchestra for 50 years. His orchestra was enjoyed by 
the community for many years.
  Mr. Elizondo was a meaningful force for progress in our community. In 
1978, Mr. Elizondo was elected to the Texas House of Representatives 
where he served two terms and was a member of the House Committee on 
State Affairs and the House Committee on Public Education. In 1982, he 
was first elected to the Bexar County Commissioners Court, later being 
elected to serve an unprecedented 10th term as Commissioner for 
Precinct 2, making him the longest serving member of the five-person 
Commissioners Court.
  Mr. Elizondo was known as a no-nonsnse individual whose commitment to 
policy was only matched by his strong sense of humor. He led 
incremental health care and criminal justice programs. He was strong 
advocate for mental health services throughout the county. He was 
instrumental in major infrastructure and safety projects such as the 
Bexar County flood control program. Mr. Elizondo's presence in the 
community extended beyond the Court. Notably, he assisted in bringing 
critical development to the Westside of San Antonio.
  To many, Mr. Elizondo was considered a mentor who dedicated over 30 
years to public service. His institutional recollection of many county 
matters will be sorely missed. Bexar County was well served by 
Commissioner Paul Elizondo.
  I am proud to have known this great individual. The passing of Mr. 
Paul Elizondo has been greatly felt throughout our community. However, 
I am confident that his impact will last for many years to come.
                        


Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a 
dedicated woman of God, great wife, steadfast mother, and friend of 
longstanding, Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier. Sadly, Mrs. Collier 
passed away on December 27, 2018. Her funeral service will be held on 
Thursday, January 3, 2019 at 11 am at the Fourth Street Missionary 
Baptist Church in Columbus, Georgia.
  Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier was born on October 22, 1926, in 
Columbus, Georgia to the union of Cleola Daniel Brown and Daniel Brown, 
Sr. She gave her life to Christ and was baptized at an early age at 
Rosehill Memorial Baptist Church. From that time on, God continued to 
be the center of her life until her passing. She served as the Sunday 
School Superintendent and Church Clerk at Rosehill before moving her 
membership to the Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church in 1957. Her 
first pastor at Fourth Street was the late Reverend Henry Harris. Mrs. 
Collier paved the way for others as she was the first Church Secretary 
at Fourth Street. She was a natural and gifted leader as she served in 
a variety of leadership positions at Fourth Street to include the 
Deacon's Wives (she served as Chairperson for two terms), Pi Com 
Community Leader in Zebulon Community, Women's Day Speaker, 1961, 
Chairperson of Program and Pastoral Relations Committee, and was the 
Roast and Toast Honoree in 1996.
  Mrs. Collier was the epitome of a great wife and mother. She married 
the late Deacon Samuel Lee Collier on April 26, 1950. God blessed this 
union for 34 years until Deacon Collier's untimely death on May 27, 
1984. Six children were born to this union to include two sets of twins 
out: Bernice Collier Collins, Bernard Collier (deceased), Agnes Collier 
Averett, Samuel Lee Collier, Jr., Michelle Collier McLain, and Michael 
Collier. Fred Rogers once said that, ``It's not so much what you have 
in life that matters, It's what we do with what we have.'' Mrs. Collier 
did a lot for others with what she had. In addition to her own 
children, she served as a mother figure to her siblings and countless 
others she found in need of guidance and a helping hand.
  Former Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm once said that, ``Service is 
the rent that we pay for the space that we occupy here on this earth.'' 
Mrs. Collier paid her rent and she paid it well. She served in a 
variety of community organizations to include: Electric City Chapter 
482 of the Order of the Eastern Stars (Worthy Matron), Spencer High 
Alumni (Class of 1943), and she was a Muscogee County Board of 
Elections Voting Precinct Manager and she traveled to various state 
conventions to further her knowledge of the voting process. She was 
also an entrepreneur and a photographer. Her professional career took 
her to the Medical Center, the Area Mental Health Clinic, and the 
Enrichment Services Program. Her benevolence extended throughout the 
community and she often used her influence and networking to help 
others to find gainful employment.
  Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along with the more than 730,000 
constituents of the Second Congressional District of Georgia, salute 
and honor the life of Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier. I ask my 
colleagues in the House of Representatives to join us in extending our 
deepest condolences to Mrs. Collier's family during this time of 
bereavement. We pray that they will be consoled and comforted by an 
abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks and months ahead.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the John Tanner 
Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act, a bill I introduced 
today.
  In most states, districts are drawn by the state legislature, and as 
a result, whichever party controls the state legislature ends up 
drawing Congressional districts specifically designed to maximize the 
number of Congressional seats that party can win.
  In other words, the elected officials choose the voters, instead of 
the voters choosing the elected officials.
  If enacted, the John Tanner Fairness and Independence in 
Redistricting Act would fix this by requiring states to use bipartisan 
redistricting commissions to draw maps. No single party would get to 
control the process.
  Historically, both parties have engaged in gerrymandering to some 
extent or another. But that does not make it right.
  In a representative democracy, the people need be able to freely and 
fairly choose their elected representatives.
  Unfortunately, that is not always happening.
  This is not what the Founders envisioned. They designed the House of 
Representatives to be the Congressional chamber that most accurately 
reflects the views of the people.
  The failure of the House to more accurately reflect the will of the 
electorate is a formula for the electorate to lose faith in the 
institution. It makes people cynical and discourages them from 
participating.
  We can do better.
  A democracy is supposed to be marketplace of ideas. The playing field 
is supposed to be fair and competitive, not gerrymandered and 
monopolized.
  I urge my, colleagues to pass this bill, and help restore some much 
needed faith in Congress.
                          



Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Washington, 
D.C. Admission Act with 156 original cosponsors, a record number. This 
is the most important bill I introduce each Congress. District of 
Columbia residents have always been citizens of the United States, 
ranking number one in federal taxes per capita that support the federal 
government, but are the only federal income taxpaying Americans who do 
not have full and equal citizenship rights. The denial of local control 
of local matters and of equal representation in the Congress can be 
remedied only by statehood.
  Therefore, I am introducing the Washington, D.C. Admission Act to 
create a state from essentially the eight home-town wards of the 
District. This 51st state, of course, would have no jurisdiction over 
the federal enclave that now consists of the Washington that Members of 
Congress and visitors associate with the capital of our country. The 
U.S. Capitol Complex, the principal federal monuments, federal 
buildings and grounds, the National Mall, the White House, and other 
federal property here would remain under federal jurisdiction. Our bill 
provides that the State of Washington, D.C. would be equal to the other 
50 states in all respects, as is always required, and that the 
residents of Washington, D.C. would have all the rights of citizenship, 
including two senators and, initially, one House member. The District 
recognizes that it can enter the Union only on an equal basis, and is 
prepared to do so.
  A substantially similar version of the Washington, D.C. Admission Act 
was the first bill I introduced after I was first sworn in as a Member 
of Congress in the 102nd Congress in 1991. Our first try for statehood 
received significant support in the House. In 1993, we got the first 
and only vote on statehood for the District, with nearly 60 percent of 
Democrats and one Republican voting for the bill. The Senate held a 
hearing on various approaches to representation, but the committee of 
jurisdiction did not proceed further. In the 113th Congress, our 
statehood bill got unprecedented momentum with the Senate's first-ever 
hearing on statehood, which was the first congressional hearing held on 
statehood in more than 20 years, since the House held its hearing on 
statehood in 1993, and obtained a record number of cosponsors in the 
House and Senate, including then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, as 
well as the other top three Democratic leaders in the Senate. In 
addition, then-President Obama endorsed D.C. statehood in a public 
forum before the statehood hearing was held. In the 115th Congress, not 
only was there a record number of original cosponsors in the House 
(116) and Senate (18), but also a record number of cosponsors in the 
House (181) and Senate (30).
  Statehood is the only solution for full and equal citizenship rights 
for residents of the District. To be content with less than statehood 
is to concede the equality of citizenship that is the birthright of our 
residents as citizens of the United States. That is a concession no 
American citizen has ever made, and one that D.C. residents will not 
make as they approach the 218th year in their fight for equal treatment 
in their country. This bill reaffirms our determination to obtain each 
and every right enjoyed by citizens of the United States, by becoming 
the 51st State in the Union.
  Since the founding of the nation, District residents have always 
carried all the obligations of citizenship, including serving in all of 
the nation's wars and payment of federal taxes, all without voting 
representation on the floor in either house of Congress or freedom from 
congressional interference in purely local matters.
  I strongly urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce the Compassionate 
Access, Research Expansion and Respect States Act, also known as the 
CARERS Act. This bipartisan bill would allow states to set their own 
policies on medical marijuana, allow states to import cannabidiol to 
treat patients with seizures, give the Veterans Administration 
physicians the ability to recommend medical marijuana to patients and 
improve opportunities for research on marijuana.
  The consensus on medical marijuana is already overwhelming and 
continues to build. According to a Quinnipiac University poll, 93 
percent of Americans believe people should be allowed to use medically 
prescribed marijuana.
  93 percent of Americans rarely agree on anything.
  In November, Missouri and Utah joined a growing majority of states 
that have legalized medical marijuana. Thirty-two states plus the 
District of Columbia have approved medical marijuana.
  Yet, our federal laws continue to treat patients and the doctors and 
families who care for them like criminals.
  It is long overdue for our federal law to reflect the common sense 
views of 93 percent of Americans and stop adding to the suffering of 
those with horrible illnesses.
  One such patient was my constituent, Chloe Grauer. At 3 years old, 
Chloe suffered from a rare neurological disease that caused her to have 
100 to 200 seizures a day. She tried dozens of medications and 
underwent surgical procedures but nothing stopped the seizures.
  Her family tried desperately to treat her with cannabidiol--also 
known as ``Charlotte's Web'' or ``CBD'' for short--which has been shown 
to treat certain diseases that cause seizures, such as the disease from 
which Chloe suffered. CBD is derived from cannabis plants, and even 
though it contains just trace amounts of the psychoactive ingredient in 
marijuana--nowhere near enough to produce a high--but it is currently 
illegal under federal law. Even this tiny amount of the ingredient, 
THC, was enough for the federal government to keep a potentially life-
saving drug away from Chloe.
  Chloe died without receiving CBD.
  This should never have happened. We must ensure that this never 
happens again.
  Just as our children deserve to be treated compassionately, so, too, 
do our veterans. Federal law currently prohibits VA doctors from 
prescribing medical marijuana when they feel it is medically 
beneficial. Our veterans deserve the best medical advice from their 
doctors, not arbitrary limits on what their doctors can do to help 
them. Veterans are tough. They can handle frank advice from their 
doctors.
  I want to thank my colleague Don Young of Alaska, for his partnership 
on this bill as well as Senator Cory Booker and the bipartisan 
coalition he is leading in the Senate on these issues. I urge both the 
House and Senate to pass this swiftly.
                        


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today, I am once again reintroducing 
the Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites Improvement 
Act. Last Congress we came so close to making this bill into law--
passing it in the Senate and reporting it out of the House Natural 
Resources Committee. I am committed to finally passing this bill to 
improve the living conditions at the 31
Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites along the 
Columbia River.
  This legislation calls for the Bureau of lndian Affairs (BIA) to 
conduct a much-needed assessment of current conditions at the In-Lieu 
and Treaty Fishing Access sites under BIA ownership on both sides of 
the Columbia, in coordination with the four Columbia River treaty 
tribes: the Warm Springs, Umatilla, Nez Perce, and Yakama Nation. It 
authorizes the BIA to improve existing federal structures and 
infrastructure, improve sanitation and safety conditions, and increase 
access to electricity, sewer, and water infrastructure. BIA may 
contract with tribes and tribal organizations to conduct this important 
work that will lay a critical foundation for the construction of 
permanent tribal housing.
  Congress must do more to help members of these four tribes who reside 
here after being displaced by decades ago by the construction of the 
Columbia River Dams and who never received the permanent replacement 
housing that was promised to them by the federal government. Those 
tribes have a treaty-protected right to fish along the river at their 
usual and accustomed places that must be respected.
  I will continue to work with federal partners and tribal nations to 
see that the need for more permanent housing is fulfilled and tribal 
member's treaty rights are respected. In the meantime, Congress must 
improve the living conditions for the affected treaty tribe members, 
and we must pass this bill.
                          



Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the 
retirement of Chief Peter Carnes, the Chief of Police and Director of 
Campus Safety at Stonehill College.
  Chief Carnes has devoted his life to serving and protecting the 
people and communities across Massachusetts. He began his illustrious 
career with the Wenham Police Department in 1973. Chief Carnes 
progressed through the ranks, becoming Wenham's chief of police.
  In 1995, Chief Carnes took on the task of heading up Cape Cod's third 
largest Police Department as Yarmouth's Chief of Police. He brought 
considerable positive change to the department during his time there. 
His citizen's police academy and Adopt-A-School programs played an 
essential role in bringing together the police department amd the 
community through education. Beyond a career serving others, Chief 
Carnes still calls Cape Cod home, living in Yarmouth with his wife 
Karen and their son.
  Chief Carnes took up his current post as Chief of Police and Director 
of Campus Safety at Stonehill College in 2008. He has embraced a 
proactive approach to safety and policing, engaging with and learning 
from the communities he serves. Chief Carnes' innovative approach to 
policing has continued to put him at the forefront of his field.
  Unrelenting in his commitment to advancing the cause of policing and 
its principles, in addition to serving faithfully as Chief of Police at 
the Wenham, Yarmouth, and Stonehill police departments, Chief Carnes 
has led many of Massachusetts' most prodigious non-departmental 
policing bodies. He served as the President of the Massachusetts 
Chief's of Police Association, The Essex County Chiefs of Police 
Association and the Cape Cod Chiefs Council. Chief Carnes' preeminence 
has allowed him to spread his community centered brand of policing to 
departments across Massachusetts. He has repeatedly exemplified the 
highest ideals of his profession throughout his years of leadership.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Chief Peter Carnes and his 
commitment to ensuring the safety of our community. I ask that my 
colleagues join me in recognizing his hard work and dedication as he 
celebrates his retirement.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of a constitutional 
amendment I introduced today to eliminate the electoral college and 
provide for the direct election of our nation's President and Vice 
President.
  As Founding Father Thomas Jefferson said, ``I am not an advocate for 
frequent changes in laws and constitutions, but laws and institutions 
must go hand in hand with the progress of the human mind. As that 
becomes more developed, more enlightened, as new discoveries are made, 
new truths discovered and manners and opinions change, with the change 
of circumstances, institutions must advance also to keep pace with the 
times. We might well as require a man to wear still the coat which 
fitted him when a boy as civilized society to remain ever under the 
regimen of their barbarous ancestors.''
  In 2016, for the second time in recent memory, and for the fifth time 
in our history, the national popular vote winner did not become 
President because of the Electoral College. This has happened twice to 
candidates from Tennessee: Al Gore and Andrew Jackson.
  The reason is because the Electoral College, established to prevent 
an uninformed citizenry from directly electing our nation's President, 
no longer fits our nation's needs.
  When the Founders established the Electoral College, it was in an era 
of limited nationwide communication. The electoral structure was 
premised on a theory that citizens would have a better chance of 
knowing about electors from their home states than about presidential 
candidates from out-of-state. Electors were supposed to be people of 
good judgment who were trusted with picking a qualified President and 
Vice President on behalf of the people. They held the responsibility of 
choosing a President because it was believed that the general public 
could not be properly informed of the candidates and the values each 
held.
  That notion--that citizens should be prevented from directly electing 
the President--is antithetical to our understanding of democracy today, 
and our electoral process has not evolved to match our abilities to 
communicate, collect information, and make informed decisions about 
candidates. The development of mass media and the internet has made 
information about presidential candidates easily accessible to U.S. 
citizens across the country and around the world. The people no longer 
need the buffer of the electoral college to be knowledgeable about and 
decide who will be president. Today, citizens have a far better chance 
of knowing about out-of-state presidential candidates than knowing 
about presidential electors from their home states. Most people do not 
even know who their electors are.
  While our ability to communicate has evolved so has the Electoral 
College, but not in a positive way. Electors are now little more than 
rubber stamps who are chosen based on their political parties and who 
represent the interests of those political parties, rather than 
representing the people. Most states legally bind their electors to 
vote for whomever wins that state's popular vote, so electors can no 
longer exercise individual judgment when selecting a candidate.
  In our country, ``We the People,'' are supposed to determine who 
represents us in elective office. Yet, we use an anachronistic process 
for choosing who will hold the highest offices in the land.
  It is time for us to fix this, and that is why I have introduced this 
amendment today.
  Since our nation first adopted our Constitution, ``We the People,'' 
have amended it repeatedly to expand the opportunity for citizens to 
directly elect our leaders:
  The 15th Amendment guarantees the right of all citizens to vote, 
regardless of race.
  The l9th Amendment guarantees the right of all citizens to vote, 
regardless of gender.
  The 26th Amendment guarantees the right of all citizens 18 years of 
age and older to vote.
  And the 17th Amendment empowers citizens to directly elect U.S. 
Senators.
  We need to amend our Constitution to empower citizens to directly 
elect the President and the Vice President of the United States.
  Working together, I know we can make our Constitution better reflect 
the ``more perfect Union'' to which it aspires.
                        


Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Mrs. Irene 
Miller she who turned 110 years young on December 28, 2018.
  Mrs. Miller has been a lifelong resident of New Bedford, 
Massachusetts. When asked about her growing up, she reminisced about 
her favorite childhood activities, sliding down Weld Street whenever it 
snowed and playing hopscotch. She married her first boyfriend and 
together they celebrated over fifty years of marriage. They went on to 
have two children, Paul and Marcia, and a continually growing family. 
Mrs. Miller now lives with her grandson.
  Born in 1908, Mrs. Miller has lived through countless historical 
events, including eight of the nine World Series victories of her 
beloved Red Sox. In her free time, she loves to read and is described 
by friends as an absolute joy who brings happiness to everyone around 
her. She is known as ``everyone's grandma,'' treating all her friends 
like family, and for her wittiness, humor, and laughter.
  To celebrate her 110th birthday, she wishes for everyone to be happy, 
which is how she lives each day. We could all benefit by learning from 
Mrs. Miller's approach to life.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Irene Miller for a lifetime spent 
making her community a better place. I ask that my colleagues join me 
in wishing her a happy birthday and many more years of health and 
happiness.
                        


Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the retirement of Judge Charlie Brett. Judge Brett, a native of Lee 
County, Mississippi, is retiring after a long and distinguished career.
  Upon graduation from Kosciusko High School, Judge Brett attended 
Mississippi State University where he graduated in 1968. Following his 
graduation, Judge Brett answered the call to serve his country and 
joined the United States Army where he served from 1969 to 1971. He 
then attended the University of Mississippi Law School where he earned 
his Juris Doctorate. During Judge Brett's time at law school he 
received several honors and served on the Moot Court Board.
  This was the beginning of Judge Brett's long career. He served four 
years as the Prosecutor for the City of Tupelo and fourteen years as 
Lee County Prosecuting Attorney and Youth Court Prosecutor. Judge Brett 
has
served sixteen plus years as County Court Judge and Youth Court Judge 
and retired as the longest serving County Court Judge in Lee County, 
Mississippi.
  Judge Brett also served six years on the Mississippi Judicial 
Performance Commission and has been the Secretary of the Mississippi 
County Court and Youth Court Judges Conference for twelve years.
  Judge Brett's love for his country and community is evident but falls 
short of his love for his family. He is married to Vicky Brett and the 
father of four daughters, Melanie, Jennifer, Lindsay, and Kayty. He is 
also the grandfather of seven grandchildren and the great grandfather 
of three great grandchildren.
  Judge Brett is also very involved in his community outside of the 
court room. He is a member of the Community Development Foundation, and 
avid hunter, sportsman and target shooter and strongly supports many 
youth and conservations groups including the Boy Scouts, National Wild 
Turkey Federation, Jakes Program, and the NRA.
  Judge Brett has selflessly served the people of Mississippi for more 
than thirty years. His devotion to God, America and his fellow man will 
always be remembered, and I wish him and his family many years of 
happiness.
                          



Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Madam Speaker, I was unavoidably detained. 
Had I been present, I would have voted on Roll Call No. 1.
                        


Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of a constitutional 
amendment I introduced today with several of my colleagues to prevent 
the President of the United States from pardoning himself, members of 
his family, members of his administration or members of his 
presidential campaign.
  The pardon power is supposed to be a safety valve against injustice. 
It is not supposed to be a way for presidents to put themselves, their 
families and members of their administration above the law.
  Unless we change the Constitution, however, this is how it could be 
used.
  There are already serious questions swirling around the current 
President, his family and members of his administration--including 
possible collusion with Russia during the 2016 presidential election, 
which is currently being investigated by Special Counsel Robert 
Mueller.
  To ensure that everyone is treated equally under the law, we need to 
amend the Constitution to narrow the scope of the pardon power.
  I urge my colleagues to pass this amendment without delay.



Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the 
life and memory of Mr. Ellis Collins, Jr., affectionately known among 
family and friends as ``Toby.'' Born on July 2, 1973, to parents Emma 
J. Collins and Ellis Collins, Sr., Toby lived a remarkable life 
dedicated to his country and his education. He enlisted in the United 
States Air Force at the age of 18, receiving several accolades 
throughout his service, including the Air Force Training Ribbon, the 
National Defense Service Medal, the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, 
and the Air Force Good Conduct Medal. Upon completing his military 
duties, he enrolled at Southern University & A&M College in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana, and earned a baccalaureate degree in Computer 
Science. He continued his studies at Louisiana State University and 
earned a Master's of Business Administration in December 2013. Toby's 
service to his country and commitment to bettering himself and those 
around him is an inspiration to us all. He was a beloved friend, son, 
student, and patriot. He will be dearly missed.
                        


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 5, I call up the 
resolution (H. Res. 6) adopting the rules of the House of 
Representatives for the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, and for other 
purposes, and ask for immediate consideration of the resolution.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:
                               H. Res. 6
       Resolved,
          TITLE I--RULES OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
     SEC. 101. ADOPTION OF THE RULES OF THE ONE HUNDRED FIFTEENTH 
                   CONGRESS.
       The Rules of the House of Representatives of the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress, including applicable provisions 
     of law or concurrent resolution that constituted rules of the 
     House at the end of the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress, are 
     adopted as the Rules of the House of Representatives of the 
     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, with amendments to the 
     standing rules as provided in section 102, and with other 
     orders as provided in this resolution.
     SEC. 102. CHANGES TO THE STANDING RULES.
       (a) Notification of Convening of the House.--In clause 12 
     of rule I, insert ``, Delegates, and the Resident 
     Commissioner'' after ``Members'' each place it appears.
       (b) Voting by Delegates and the Resident Commissioner in 
     the Committee of the Whole.--
       (1) In clause 3(a) of rule III, insert ``In a Committee of 
     the Whole House on the State of the Union, each Delegate and 
     the Resident Commissioner shall possess the same powers and 
     privileges as Members of the House.'' before ``Each 
     Delegate''.
       (2) In clause 6 of rule XVIII, add at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(h) Whenever a recorded vote on any question has been 
     decided by a margin within which the votes cast by the 
     Delegates and the Resident Commissioner have been decisive, 
     the Committee of the Whole shall rise and the Speaker shall 
     put such question de novo without intervening motion. Upon 
     the announcement of the vote on that question, the Committee 
     of the Whole shall resume its sitting without intervening 
     motion.''.
       (c) Allowing Delegates and the Resident Commissioner to 
     Serve on Joint Committees.--In clause 3(b) of rule III, 
     strike ``and to any'' and insert ``, joint committee, or''.
       (d) Admittance to the Hall of the House.--In clause 2(a) of 
     rule IV--
       (1) strike subparagraphs (1) and (2) and insert the 
     following:
       ``(1) Members of Congress, Members-elect, Delegates, 
     Delegates-elect, the Resident Commissioner, and the Resident 
     Commissioner-elect.
       ``(2) Contestants in election cases during the pendency of 
     their cases on the floor.''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (14), insert ``and of the Territories'' 
     after ``States''.
       (e) Office of Speaker.--In clause 2(a) of rule IX, add the 
     following new subparagraph:
       ``(3) A resolution causing a vacancy in the Office of 
     Speaker shall not be privileged except if offered by 
     direction of a party caucus or conference.''.
       (f) Designating Committee on Oversight and Reform.--In the 
     standing rules, strike ``Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform'' each place it appears and insert (in each 
     instance) ``Committee on Oversight and Reform''.
       (g) Designating Committee on Education and Labor.--
       (1) In clause 1(e) of rule X, strike ``the Workforce'' and 
     insert ``Labor''.
       (2) In clause 3(d) of rule X, strike ``the Workforce'' and 
     insert ``Labor''.
       (h) Education and Labor Jurisdiction Clarification.--In 
     clause 1(e) of rule X, add the following new subparagraphs:
       ``(14) Organization, administration, and general management 
     of the Department of Education.
       ``(15) Organization, administration, and general management 
     of the Department of Labor.''.
       (i) Committee Oversight Plans.--Amend clause 2(d) of rule X 
     to read as follows:
       ``(d)(1) Not later than March 1 of the first session of a 
     Congress, the chair of each standing committee (other than 
     the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Ethics, and 
     the Committee on Rules) shall--
       ``(A) prepare, in consultation with the ranking minority 
     member, an oversight plan for that Congress;
       ``(B) provide a copy of that plan to each member of the 
     committee for at least seven calendar days before its 
     submission; and
       ``(C) submit that plan (including any supplemental, 
     minority, additional, or dissenting views submitted by a 
     member of the committee) simultaneously to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Reform and the Committee on House 
     Administration.
       ``(2) In developing the plan, the chair of each committee 
     shall, to the maximum extent feasible--
       ``(A) consult with other committees that have jurisdiction 
     over the same or related laws, programs, or agencies with the 
     objective of ensuring maximum coordination and cooperation 
     among committees when conducting reviews of such laws, 
     programs, or agencies and include in the plan an explanation 
     of steps that have been or will be taken to ensure such 
     coordination and cooperation;
       ``(B) review specific problems with Federal rules, 
     regulations, statutes, and court decisions that are 
     ambiguous, arbitrary, or nonsensical, or that impose severe 
     financial burdens on individuals;
       ``(C) give priority consideration to including in the plan 
     the review of those laws, programs, or agencies operating 
     under permanent budget authority or permanent statutory 
     authority;
       ``(D) have a view toward ensuring that all significant 
     laws, programs, or agencies within the committee's 
     jurisdiction are subject to review every 10 years; and
       ``(E) have a view toward insuring against duplication of 
     Federal programs.
       ``(3) Not later than April 15 in the first session of a 
     Congress, after consultation with the Speaker, the Majority 
     Leader, and the Minority Leader, the Committee on Oversight 
     and Reform shall report to the House the oversight plans 
     submitted under subparagraph (1) together with any 
     recommendations that it, or the House leadership group 
     described above, may make to ensure the most effective 
     coordination of oversight plans and otherwise to achieve the 
     objectives of this clause.''.
       (j) Activity Reports.--
       (1) In clause 1(d)(2)(B) of rule XI, strike ``authorization 
     and''.
       (2) In clause 1(d)(2)(C) of rule XI, strike ``authorization 
     and''.
       (k) Oversight Over the Executive Office of the President.--
     In clause 3(i) of rule X, strike ``with a view to determining 
     their economy and efficiency'' and insert ``, including the 
     Executive Office of the President''.
       (l) Oversight and Reform Committee Depositions.--In clause 
     4(c)(3)(B) of rule X--
       (1) in item (i), insert ``and'' after the semicolon;
       (2) in item (ii), strike ``; and'' and insert ``.''; and
       (3) strike item (iii).
       (m) Removing Certain Committee Term Limits.--
       (1) In clause 5(a)(2) of rule X--
       (A) strike subdivisions (B) and (C); and
       (B) in subdivision (A), strike ``(A)'' and redesignate 
     items (i), (ii), and (iii) as subdivisions (A), (B), and (C).
       (2) In clause 5(c) of rule X--
       (A) strike the designation of subparagraph (1); and
       (B) strike subparagraph (2).
       (n) Rules of Committees.--In clause 2(a)(2) of rule XI, 
     strike ``30'' and insert ``60''.
       (o) Committee Markup Notice.--In clause 2(g)(3)(A)(ii) of 
     rule XI, strike ``third day'' and insert ``third calendar day 
     (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except when 
     the House is in session on such a day)''.
       (p) Annual Ethics Training.--In clause 3(a)(6)(B)(ii) of 
     rule XI--
       (1) strike ``officer and employee'' and insert ``Member, 
     Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, and employee''; and
       (2) strike ``officer or employee'' and insert ``Member, 
     Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or employee''.
       (q) Considering Criminal Trial Evidence in Ethics 
     Investigation.--In clause 3(p) of rule XI--
       (1) in subparagraph (5)(C), strike ``first; or'' and insert 
     ``first;'';
       (2) in subparagraph (5)(D), strike ``investigation;'' and 
     insert ``investigation; or'';
       (3) in subparagraph (5), add at the end the following new 
     subdivision:
       ``(E) the committee or an investigative subcommittee 
     determines to take into evidence the trial transcript or 
     exhibits admitted into evidence at a criminal trial pursuant 
     to subparagraph (9);'';
       (4) in subparagraph (7), strike ``; and'' and insert a 
     semicolon;
       (5) in subparagraph (8), strike the period and insert ``; 
     and''; and
       (6) add at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(9) in any investigation permitted by House or committee 
     rules, in addition to any other evidence which the committee 
     or an investigative subcommittee may consider, if the 
     respondent has been convicted by a court of record for a 
     crime which is related to the subject of the investigation, 
     the committee or investigative subcommittee may take into 
     evidence the trial transcript and all exhibits admitted into 
     evidence at the trial.''.
       (r) Consensus Calendar.--
       (1) In clause 1 of rule XIII, add at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(c) There is established a Consensus Calendar as provided 
     in clause 7 of rule XV.''.
       (2) In rule XV, add at the end the following new clause:
     ``Consensus Calendar
       ``7.(a)(1) At least once during any week in which the House 
     convenes, the House shall consider a measure on the Consensus 
     Calendar as designated by the Speaker.
       ``(2) This paragraph does not apply before March 1 of an 
     odd-numbered year or after September 30 of an even-numbered 
     year.
       ``(b)(1) The sponsor of a measure that has accumulated 290 
     cosponsors and has not been reported by the committee of 
     primary jurisdiction may present to the Clerk a motion in 
     writing to place that measure on the Consensus Calendar.
       ``(2) A proper motion presented under subparagraph (1) 
     shall be placed in the custody of the Clerk, and shall appear 
     in a portion of the Congressional Record designated for that 
     purpose. The Clerk shall maintain a cumulative list of such 
     motions, and shall make such list publicly available in 
     electronic form.
       ``(3) A motion presented under subparagraph (1) shall be 
     considered as withdrawn if the measure is reported by the 
     committee of primary jurisdiction prior to its placement on 
     the Consensus Calendar.
       ``(c) After a measure has maintained at least 290 
     cosponsors for a cumulative period of 25 legislative days 
     after the presentation of a motion under paragraph (b)(1), 
     the measure shall be placed on the Consensus Calendar. Such 
     measure shall remain on the Consensus Calendar until it is--
       ``(1) considered in the House; or
       ``(2) reported by the committee of primary jurisdiction.''.
       (s) Recorded Votes in Rules Committee Reports.--In clause 
     3(b) of rule XIII, insert ``, and applies only to the maximum 
     extent practicable to a report by the Committee on Rules on a 
     rule, joint rule, or the order of business'' after 
     ``Ethics''.
       (t) 72-Hour Text Availability.--
       (1) In clause 4(a)(1) of rule XIII--
       (A) strike ``the third calendar day (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such a day) on which each report'' and insert 
     ``the proposed text of each report (except views referred to 
     in clause 2(l) of rule XI)''; and
       (B) insert ``for 72 hours'' after ``Resident 
     Commissioner''.
       (2) In clause 11 of rule XXI--
       (A) strike ``the third calendar day (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such a day) on which''; and
       (B) insert ``for 72 hours'' after ``Resident 
     Commissioner''.
       (3) In clause 8(a)(1)(A) of rule XXII--
       (A) strike ``the third calendar day (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such a day) on which''; and
       (B) insert ``for 72 hours'' after ``Resident 
     Commissioner''.
       (4) In clause 8(b)(1)(A) of rule XXII--
       (A) strike ``the third calendar day (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on such a day) on which''; and
       (B) insert ``for 72 hours'' after ``Resident 
     Commissioner''.
       (u) Macroeconomic Analysis.--In rule XIII, strike clause 8.
       (v) Discharge Petitions.--
       (1) In clause 2 of rule XV--
       (A) strike ``Discharge motions, second and fourth Mondays'' 
     and insert ``Discharge motions'';
       (B) strike paragraph (a) and redesignate the subsequent 
     paragraphs accordingly;
       (C) in paragraph (b) (as so redesignated), strike 
     ``paragraph (b)'' and insert ``paragraph (a)''; and
       (D) in paragraph (c)(1) (as so redesignated), strike the 
     first sentence and insert the following: ``A motion to 
     discharge that has been on the calendar for at least seven 
     legislative days (except during the last six days of a 
     session of Congress) shall be privileged only at a time or 
     place, designated by the Speaker, in the legislative schedule 
     within two legislative days after the day on which a Member 
     whose signature appears thereon announces to the House an 
     intention to offer the motion.''.
       (2) In clause 6(e) of rule XIII, strike ``on a day when it 
     is in order to consider a motion to discharge committees 
     under clause 2 of rule XV'' and insert ``on the second and 
     fourth Mondays of a month''.
       (3) In clause 3 of rule XV, strike ``on a day when it is in 
     order to consider a motion to discharge committees under 
     clause 2'' and insert ``on the second and fourth Mondays of a 
     month''.
       (4) In clause 4 of rule XV, strike ``after the disposition 
     of motions to discharge committees and''.
       (w) Private Calendar.--In clause 5 of rule XV--
       (1) in the caption, strike ``, first and third Tuesdays''; 
     and
       (2) in paragraph (b)(1), amend the first sentence to read 
     as follows: ``On any day, after the disposal of such business 
     on the Speaker's table as requires reference only, the 
     Speaker may direct the Clerk to call any bill or resolution 
     that has been on the Private Calendar for at least seven 
     days, but only on the second legislative day after the 
     legislative day on which the Speaker or a designee announces 
     to the House an intention to do so.''.
       (x) Religious Headdress.--In clause 5 of rule XVII, insert 
     ``non-religious headdress or'' before ``a hat''.
       (y) Quorum in the Committee of the Whole.--In clause 6 of 
     rule XVIII--
       (1) in paragraph (a), insert ``, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner'' after ``Members'';
       (2) in paragraph (e), insert ``, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner'' after ``Members''; and
       (3) in paragraph (g)(2), insert ``, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner'' after ``Members''.
       (z) Two-minute Voting in the Committee of the Whole.--In 
     clause 6 of rule XVIII--
       (1) in paragraph (f)--
       (A) strike ``without any intervening business or debate''; 
     and
       (B) after ``first pending amendment'' insert the following: 
     ``, if in the discretion of the Chair Members, Delegates, and 
     the Resident Commissioner would be afforded an adequate 
     opportunity to vote''; and
       (2) in paragraph (g)--
       (A) in subparagraph (1), strike ``without intervening 
     business''; and
       (B) in subparagraph (2), strike ``without intervening 
     debate or motion''.
       (aa) Postponability of Certain Votes.--In clause 8(a)(2) of 
     rule XX--
       (1) redesignate subdivisions (G) through (J) as 
     subdivisions (H) through (K), respectively;
       (2) insert after subdivision (F) the following new 
     subdivision:
       ``(G) The question of agreeing to an amendment.'';
       (3) in subdivision (H) (as redesignated), strike ``(F)'' 
     and insert ``(G)''; and
       (4) strike subdivision (K) (as redesignated).
       (bb) Discretion for Five-minute Votes.--
       (1) Strike clause 8(c) of rule XX (and redesignate the 
     succeeding paragraph accordingly).
       (2) Amend clause 9 of rule XX to read as follows:
       ``9.(a) The Speaker may reduce to five minutes the minimum 
     time for electronic voting on any question that follows 
     another electronic vote or a report from the Committee of the 
     Whole, if in the discretion of the Speaker Members would be 
     afforded an adequate opportunity to vote.
       ``(b) To the maximum extent practicable, notice of possible 
     five-minute voting for a given series of votes shall be 
     issued prior to the first electronic vote in the series.''.
       (cc) Net Increase in Budget Authority.--In clause 2 of rule 
     XXI, strike paragraph (g).
       (dd) Removing Supermajority Vote.--
       (1) In clause 5 of rule XXI, strike paragraph (b) and 
     redesignate the subsequent paragraph accordingly.
       (2) In clause 10 of rule XX, strike ``, or increasing 
     Federal income tax rates (within the meaning of clause 5 of 
     rule XXI)''.
       (3) In clause 5(a) of rule XXI, strike ``paragraph (1)'' 
     and insert ``subparagraph (1)''.
       (ee) Pay-As-You-Go Point Of Order.--In rule XXI, amend 
     clause 10 to read as follows:
       ``10.(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c), 
     it shall not be in order to consider any bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment, or conference report if the provisions 
     of such measure affecting direct spending and revenues have 
     the net effect of increasing the deficit or reducing the 
     surplus for either the period comprising--
       ``(A) the current fiscal year, the budget year, and the 
     four fiscal years following that budget year; or
       ``(B) the current fiscal year, the budget year, and the 
     nine fiscal years following that budget year.
       ``(2) The effect of such measure on the deficit or surplus 
     shall be determined on the basis of estimates made by the 
     Committee on the Budget relative to baseline estimates 
     supplied by the Congressional Budget Office consistent with 
     section 257 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.
       ``(b) If a bill, joint resolution, or amendment is 
     considered pursuant to a special order of the House directing 
     the Clerk to add as new matter at the end of such measure the 
     provisions of a separate measure as passed by the House, the 
     provisions of such separate measure as passed by the House 
     shall be included in the evaluation under paragraph (a) of 
     the bill, joint resolution, or amendment.
       ``(c)(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2), the 
     evaluation under paragraph (a) shall exclude a provision 
     expressly designated as an emergency for purposes of pay-as-
     you-go principles in the case of a point of order under this 
     clause against consideration of--
       ``(A) a bill or joint resolution;
       ``(B) an amendment made in order as original text by a 
     special order of business;
       ``(C) a conference report; or
       ``(D) an amendment between the Houses.
       ``(2) In the case of an amendment (other than one specified 
     in subparagraph (1)) to a bill or joint resolution, the 
     evaluation under paragraph (a) shall give no cognizance to 
     any designation of emergency.
       ``(3) If a bill, a joint resolution, an amendment made in 
     order as original text by a special order of business, a 
     conference report, or an amendment between the Houses 
     includes a provision expressly designated as an emergency for 
     purposes of pay-as-you-go principles, the Chair shall put the 
     question of consideration with respect thereto.
       ``(d) For the purpose of this clause, the terms `budget 
     year' and `current year' have the meanings specified in 
     section 250 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985, and the term `direct spending' has the 
     meaning specified in such section 250 except that such term 
     shall also include provisions in appropriations Acts that 
     make outyear modifications to substantive law as described in 
     section 3(4)(C) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 
     2010.''.
       (ff) Banning Discrimination on the Basis of Sexual 
     Orientation or Gender Identity.--In clause 9 of rule XXIII, 
     insert ``sexual orientation, gender identity,'' before 
     ``disability''.
       (gg) Banning Sexual Relationships Between Members and 
     Committee Staff.--In clause 18(a) of rule XXIII, strike 
     ``Resident Commissioner.'' and insert ``Resident 
     Commissioner, or who is an employee of a committee on which 
     the Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner serves.''.
       (hh) Service of Indicted Members in Leadership and on 
     Committees.--In clause 10 of rule XXIII--
       (1) designate the existing sentence as paragraph (a); and
       (2) insert at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(b) A Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner who has 
     been indicted for or otherwise formally charged with criminal 
     conduct in any Federal, State, or local court punishable as a 
     felony for which a sentence of two or more years' 
     imprisonment may be imposed should submit his or her 
     resignation from any standing, select, joint or ad hoc 
     committee, and any subcommittee thereof, on which he or she 
     serves, and should step aside from any party caucus or 
     conference leadership position he or she holds, unless or 
     until judicial or executive proceedings result in acquittal 
     or the charges are dismissed or reduced to less than a felony 
     as described in this paragraph.''.
       (ii) Banning Members, Officers, and Employees From Sitting 
     on Corporate Boards.--Effective January 1, 2020, in rule 
     XXIII--
       (1) redesignate clause 19 as clause 20; and
       (2) insert after clause 18 the following new clause:
       ``19.(a) A Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, 
     officer, or employee of the House may not serve as an officer 
     or director of any public company.
       ``(b) In paragraph (a), the term `public company' means an 
     issuer as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act 
     of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c)--
       ``(1) the securities of which are required to be registered 
     under section 12 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78l); or
       ``(2) that is required to file reports under section 15(d) 
     of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)).
       ``(c) Not later than December 31, 2019, the Committee on 
     Ethics shall develop regulations addressing other types of 
     prohibited service or positions that could lead to conflicts 
     of interest.''.
       (jj) Suspension of the Debt Limit.--Rule XXVIII is amended 
     to read as follows:
  
                             ``RULE XXVIII
                  ``Statutory Limit on the Public Debt
       ``1. Upon adoption by the House of a concurrent resolution 
     on the budget under section 301 or 304 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974, the Clerk shall prepare an engrossment of 
     a joint resolution suspending the statutory limit on the 
     public debt in the form prescribed in clause 2. Upon 
     engrossment of the joint resolution, the vote by which the 
     concurrent resolution on the budget was adopted by the House 
     shall also be considered as a vote on passage of the joint 
     resolution in the House, and the joint resolution shall be 
     considered as passed by the House and duly certified and 
     examined. The engrossed copy shall be signed by the Clerk and 
     transmitted to the Senate for further legislative action.
       ``2. The matter after the resolving clause in a joint 
     resolution described in clause 1 shall be as follows: 
     `Section 3101(b) of title 31, United States Code, shall not 
     apply for the period beginning on the date of enactment and 
     ending on September 30, .' with the blank being filled 
     with the budget year for the concurrent resolution.
       ``3. Nothing in this rule shall be construed as limiting or 
     otherwise affecting--
       ``(a) the power of the House or the Senate to consider and 
     pass bills or joint resolutions, without regard to the 
     procedures under clause 1, that would change the statutory 
     limit on the public debt; or
       ``(b) the rights of Members, Delegates, the Resident 
     Commissioner, or committees with respect to the introduction, 
     consideration, and reporting of such bills or joint 
     resolutions.
       ``4. In this rule the term 'statutory limit on the public 
     debt' means the maximum face amount of obligations issued 
     under authority of chapter 31 of title 31, United States 
     Code, and obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest 
     by the United States (except such guaranteed obligations as 
     may be held by the Secretary of the Treasury), as determined 
     under section 3101(b) of such title after the application of 
     section 3101(a) of such title, that may be outstanding at any 
     one time.''.
     SEC. 103. SEPARATE ORDERS.
       (a) Deposition Authority.--
       (1) During the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, the chair of 
     a standing committee (other than the Committee on Rules), and 
     the chair of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 
     upon consultation with the ranking minority member of such 
     committee, may order the taking of depositions, including 
     pursuant to subpoena, by a member or counsel of such 
     committee.
       (2) Depositions taken under the authority prescribed in 
     this subsection shall be subject to regulations issued by the 
     chair of the Committee on Rules and printed in the 
     Congressional Record.
       (b) Providing for Transparency With Respect to Memorials 
     Submitted Pursuant to Article V of the Constitution of the 
     United States.--With respect to any memorial presented under 
     clause 3 of rule XII purporting to be an application of the 
     legislature of a State calling for a convention for proposing 
     amendments to the Constitution of the United States pursuant 
     to Article V, or a rescission of any such prior application--
       (1) the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary shall, in 
     the case of a memorial presented in the One Hundred 
     Fourteenth Congress or succeeding Congresses, and may, in the 
     case of such a memorial presented prior to the One Hundred 
     Fourteenth Congress, designate any such memorial for public 
     availability by the Clerk; and
       (2) the Clerk shall make such memorials as are designated 
     pursuant to paragraph (1) publicly available in electronic 
     form, organized by State of origin and year of receipt, and 
     shall indicate whether the memorial was designated as an 
     application or a rescission.
       (c) Limitation on Advance Appropriations.--
       (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any general 
     appropriation bill or bill or joint resolution continuing 
     appropriations, or amendment thereto or conference report 
     thereon, may not provide an advance appropriation.
       (2) An advance appropriation may be provided for programs, 
     activities or accounts identified in lists submitted for 
     printing in the Congressional Record by the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget (when elected)--
       (A) for fiscal year 2020, under the heading ``Accounts 
     Identified for Advance Appropriations'' in an aggregate 
     amount not to exceed $28,852,000,000 in new budget authority, 
     and for 2021, accounts separately identified under the same 
     heading; and
       (B) for fiscal year 2020, under the heading ``Veterans 
     Accounts Identified for Advance Appropriations'' in an 
     aggregate amount not to exceed $75,550,600,000 in new budget 
     authority.
       (3) Definition.--The term ``advance appropriation'' means 
     any new discretionary budget authority provided in a general 
     appropriation bill or bill or joint resolution continuing 
     appropriations for fiscal year 2019, or any amendment thereto 
     or conference report thereon, that first becomes available 
     following fiscal year 2019.
       (d) Exercise Facilities for Former Members.--During the One 
     Hundred Sixteenth Congress--
       (1) The House of Representatives may not provide access to 
     any exercise facility which is made available exclusively to 
     Members and former Members, officers and former officers of 
     the House of Representatives, and their spouses to any former 
     Member, former officer, or spouse who is a lobbyist 
     registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 or any 
     successor statute or who is an agent of a foreign principal 
     as defined in clause 5 of rule XXV. For purposes of this 
     subsection, the term ``Member'' includes a Delegate or 
     Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
       (2) The Committee on House Administration shall promulgate 
     regulations to carry out this subsection.
       (e) Numbering of Bills.--In the One Hundred Sixteenth 
     Congress, the first 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 1 through H.R. 
     10) shall be reserved for assignment by the Speaker and the 
     second 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 11 through H.R. 20) shall 
     be reserved for assignment by the Minority Leader.
       (f) Inclusion of Citations for Proposed Repeals and 
     Amendments.--To the maximum extent practicable and consistent 
     with established drafting conventions, an instruction in a 
     bill or joint resolution proposing to repeal or amend any law 
     or part thereof not contained in a codified title of the 
     United States Code shall include, in parentheses immediately 
     following the designation of the matter proposed to be 
     repealed or amended, the applicable United States Code 
     citation (which may be a note in the United States Code), or, 
     if no such citation is available, an appropriate alternative 
     citation to the applicable law or part.
       (g) Broadening Availability of Legislative Documents in 
     Machine-readable Formats.--The Committee on House 
     Administration, the Clerk, and other officers and officials 
     of the House shall continue efforts to broaden the 
     availability of legislative documents in machine readable 
     formats in the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress in furtherance 
     of the institutional priority of improving public 
     availability and use of legislative information produced by 
     the House and its committees.
       (h) Subcommittees.--Notwithstanding clause 5(d) of rule X, 
     during the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress--
       (1) the Committee on Agriculture may have not more than six 
     subcommittees; and
       (2) the Committee on Financial Services may have not more 
     than seven subcommittees.
       (i) Requiring Committee Hearing and Markup on Bills and 
     Joint Resolutions.--
       (1) Effective March 1, 2019, during the One Hundred 
     Sixteenth Congress, it shall not be in order to consider a 
     bill or joint resolution pursuant to a special order of 
     business reported by the Committee on Rules that--
       (A) has not been reported by a committee; or
       (B) has been reported by a committee unless the report 
     includes a list of related committee and subcommittee 
     hearings and a designation of at least one committee or 
     subcommittee hearing that was used to develop or consider 
     such bill or joint resolution.
       (2) This subsection shall not apply to a bill or joint 
     resolution--
       (A) continuing appropriations for a fiscal year;
       (B) containing an emergency designation under section 
     251(b)(2) or section 252(e) of the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act; or
       (C) designated pursuant to clause 7(a) of rule XV.
       (j) Member Day Hearing Requirement.--During the first 
     session of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, each standing 
     committee (other than the Committee on Ethics) shall hold a 
     hearing at which it receives testimony from Members, 
     Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner on proposed 
     legislation within its jurisdiction, except that the 
     Committee on Rules may hold such hearing during the second 
     session of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
       (k) Empaneling Investigative Subcommittee of the Committee 
     on Ethics.--The text of House Resolution 451, One Hundred 
     Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred Sixteenth 
     Congress in the same manner as such provision applied in the 
     One Hundred Tenth Congress, except that references to the 
     Committee on Standards of Official Conduct shall be construed 
     as references to the Committee on Ethics.
       (l) War Powers Resolution.--During the One Hundred 
     Sixteenth Congress, a motion to discharge a measure 
     introduced pursuant to section 6 or section 7 of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1545-46) shall not be subject to 
     a motion to table.
       (m) Budget Matters.--During the first session of the One 
     Hundred Sixteenth Congress, pending the adoption of a 
     concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2019--
       (1) the allocations, aggregates, and other appropriate 
     levels as contained in the statement of the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives in 
     the Congressional Record of May 10, 2018, as adjusted in the 
     One Hundred Fifteenth Congress, shall be considered for all 
     purposes in the House to be the allocations, aggregates, and 
     other appropriate levels under titles III and IV of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and
       (2) the provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 71, One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress, specified in section 30104(f)(1) 
     of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 shall have no force or 
     effect except for sections 5201, 5202, 5203, and 5401 of such 
     concurrent resolution.
       (n) Legal Issues Related to the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act.--To protect the institutional interests 
     of the House of Representatives, the Speaker, on behalf of 
     the House, is authorized to intervene, otherwise appear, or 
     take any other
     steps, in the case of Texas v. United States, No. 4:18-cv-
     00167-O (N.D. Tex.) and in any appellate proceedings arising 
     from such case. The Speaker, in consultation with the 
     Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, is also authorized to 
     intervene, otherwise appear, or take any other steps in any 
     other cases involving the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act to protect the institutional interests of the House 
     and to defend such Act, the amendments made by such Act to 
     other provisions of law, and any amendments to such 
     provisions, including the provisions ensuring affordable 
     health coverage for those with preexisting conditions. The 
     House authorizes the Office of General Counsel of the House 
     of Representatives, at the direction of the Speaker, to 
     represent the House in any such litigation, and to take such 
     steps as may be appropriate, including the supervision and 
     employment of services of outside counsel, including pro bono 
     counsel, or other experts.
       (o) Legal Issues Related to the Supplemental Nutrition 
     Assistance Program.--The Office of General Counsel is 
     directed to immediately explore all possible legal options 
     for responding to any rulemaking by the United States 
     Department of Agriculture, announced on or after December 20, 
     2018, to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program 
     involving requirements for able-bodied adults without 
     dependents.
       (p) Congressional Member Organization Transparency 
     Reform.--
       (1) Payment of salaries and expenses through account of 
     organization.--A Member of the House of Representatives and 
     an eligible Congressional Member Organization may enter into 
     an agreement under which--
       (A) an employee of the Member's office may carry out 
     official and representational duties of the Member by 
     assignment to the Organization; and
       (B) to the extent that the employee carries out such duties 
     under the agreement, the Member shall transfer the portion of 
     the Members' Representational Allowance (MRA) of the Member 
     which would otherwise be used for the salary and related 
     expenses of the employee to a dedicated account in the House 
     of Representatives which is administered by the Organization, 
     in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the 
     Committee on House Administration under paragraph (2).
       (2) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration 
     (hereafter referred to in this subsection as the 
     ``Committee'') shall promulgate regulations as follows:
       (A) Use of mra.--Pursuant to the authority of section 
     101(d) of the House of Representatives Administrative Reform 
     Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5341(d)), the Committee 
     shall prescribe regulations to provide that an eligible 
     Congressional Member Organization may use the amounts 
     transferred to the Organization's dedicated account under 
     paragraph (1)(B) for the same purposes for which a Member of 
     the House of Representatives may use the Members' 
     Representational Allowance, except that the Organization may 
     not use such amounts for franked mail, official travel, or 
     leases of space or vehicles.
       (B) Maintenance of limitations on number of shared 
     employees.--Pursuant to the authority of section 104(d) of 
     the House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical 
     Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5321(d)), the Committee shall 
     prescribe regulations to provide that an employee of the 
     office of a Member of the House of Representatives who is 
     covered by an agreement entered into under paragraph (1) 
     between the Member and an eligible Congressional Member 
     Organization shall be considered a shared employee of the 
     Member's office and the Organization for purposes of such 
     section, and shall include in such regulations appropriate 
     accounting standards to ensure that a Member of the House of 
     Representatives who enters into an agreement with such an 
     Organization under paragraph (1) does not employ more 
     employees than the Member is authorized to employ under such 
     section.
       (C) Participation in student loan repayment program.--
     Pursuant to the authority of section 105(b) of the 
     Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 
     4536(b)), relating to the student loan repayment program for 
     employees of the House, the Committee shall promulgate 
     regulations to provide that, in the case of an employee who 
     is covered by an agreement entered into under paragraph (1) 
     between a Member of the House of Representatives and an 
     eligible Congressional Member Organization and who 
     participates in such program while carrying out duties under 
     the agreement--
       (i) any funds made available for making payments under the 
     program with respect to the employee shall be transferred to 
     the Organization's dedicated account under paragraph (1)(B); 
     and
       (ii) the Organization shall use the funds to repay a 
     student loan taken out by the employee, under the same terms 
     and conditions which would apply under the program if the 
     Organization were the employing office of the employee.
       (D) Access to house services.--The Committee shall 
     prescribe regulations to ensure that an eligible 
     Congressional Member Organization has appropriate access to 
     services of the House.
       (E) Other regulations.--The Committee shall promulgate such 
     other regulations as may be appropriate to carry out this 
     subsection.
       (3) Eligible congressional member organization defined.--In 
     this subsection, the term ``eligible Congressional Member 
     Organization'' means, with respect to the One Hundred 
     Sixteenth Congress, an organization meeting each of the 
     following requirements:
       (A) The organization is registered as a Congressional 
     Member Organization with the Committee on House 
     Administration.
       (B) The organization designates a single Member of the 
     House of Representatives to be responsible for the 
     administration of the organization, including the 
     administration of the account administered under paragraph 
     (1)(B), and includes the identification of such Member with 
     the statement of organization that the organization files and 
     maintains with the Committee on House Administration.
       (C) At least 3 employees of the House are assigned to 
     perform some work for the organization.
       (D) During the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress, at least 15 
     Members of the House of Representatives used a portion of the 
     Members' Representational Allowance of the Member for the 
     salary and related expenses of an employee who was a shared 
     employee of the Member's office and the organization.
       (E) The organization files a statement with the Committee 
     on House Administration and the Chief Administrative Officer 
     of the House of Representatives certifying that it will 
     administer an account in accordance with paragraph (1)(B).
       (q) Non-disclosure Agreements.--Any non-disclosure 
     agreement imposed by any employing or contracting authority 
     in the House of Representatives to which a paid or unpaid 
     employee or contractor is or was required to agree as a term 
     of employment shall--
       (1) provide clear guidance that the employee or contractor 
     may communicate concerning any matter with the Committee on 
     Ethics, the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, or any 
     other office or entity designated by the Committee on House 
     Administration without prior, concurrent, or subsequent 
     notice or approval; and
       (2) not be binding and shall have no legal effect to the 
     extent to which it requires prior, concurrent, or subsequent 
     notice or approval from anyone on any matter with respect to 
     communications from an employee or contractor to any of the 
     committees, offices, or entities described in paragraph (1).
       (r) Requiring Members to Pay for Discrimination 
     Settlements.--
       (1) In general.--In the case of a settlement of a complaint 
     under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 in 
     connection with a claim alleging a violation described in 
     paragraph (2) which is committed personally by a Member, 
     Delegate, or Resident Commissioner, if the Member, Delegate, 
     or Resident Commissioner is not required under law to 
     reimburse the Treasury for the amount of the settlement, the 
     chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House 
     Administration may not approve the settlement pursuant to 
     clause 4(d)(2) of rule X unless, under the terms and 
     conditions of the settlement, the Member, Delegate, or 
     Resident Commissioner is required to reimburse the Treasury 
     for the amount of the settlement.
       (2) Violations described.--A violation described in this 
     paragraph is--
       (A) a violation of section 201(a) or section 206(a) of the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995; or
       (B) a violation of section 207 of such Act which consists 
     of intimidating, taking reprisal against, or otherwise 
     discriminating against any covered employee under such Act 
     because of a claim alleging a violation described in 
     subparagraph (A).
       (s) Mandatory Anti-harassment and Anti-discrimination 
     Policies for House Offices.--
       (1) Requiring offices to adopt policy.--Each employing 
     office of the House of Representatives under the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 shall adopt an anti-
     harassment and anti-discrimination policy for the office's 
     workplace.
       (2) Regulations.--Not later than April 1, 2019, the 
     Committee on House Administration shall promulgate 
     regulations to carry out this section, and shall ensure that 
     such regulations are consistent with the requirements of the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, rule XXIII, and 
     other relevant laws, rules, and regulations.
       (t) Displaying Statement of Rights and Protections Provided 
     to House Employees.--The Committee on House Administration 
     shall issue regulations to provide that each employing office 
     of the House of Representatives shall post in a prominent 
     location in the office (including, in the case of the office 
     of a Member, Delegate, or the Resident Commissioner, a 
     prominent location in each district office) a statement of 
     the rights and protections provided to employees of the House 
     of Representatives under the Congressional Accountability Act 
     of 1995, including the procedures available to employees of 
     the House under such Act for responding to and adjudicating 
     allegations of violations of such rights and protections.
     SEC. 104. COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, AND HOUSE OFFICES.
       (a) House Democracy Partnership.--House Resolution 24, One 
     Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred 
     Sixteenth Congress in the same manner as such resolution 
     applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress except that the 
     commission concerned shall be known as the House Democracy 
     Partnership.
       (b) Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.--
       (1) In general.--Sections 1 through 7 of House Resolution 
     1451, One Hundred Tenth
     Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress 
     in the same manner as such provisions applied in the One 
     Hundred Tenth Congress, except that--
       (A) the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission may, in addition 
     to collaborating closely with other professional staff 
     members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, collaborate 
     closely with professional staff members of other relevant 
     committees;
       (B) the resources of the Committee on Foreign Affairs which 
     the Commission may use shall include all resources which the 
     Committee is authorized to obtain from other offices of the 
     House of Representatives; and
       (C) any amounts authorized to provide full-time 
     professional staff and resources to the Tom Lantos Human 
     Rights Commission shall be in addition to and separate from 
     the overall budget authorization for the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs as provided by resolution of the House, shall be 
     administered by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and shall 
     be distributed equally between the co-chairs of the 
     Commission.
       (2) Funding.--For the expenses of the Commission, including 
     the expenses of full-time professional staff and other 
     resources, there shall be paid, out of the applicable 
     accounts of the House of Representatives, not more than 
     $52,000, to be available during the period beginning at noon 
     on January 3, 2019, and ending on March 31, 2019. The amounts 
     provided under this paragraph shall be administered by the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs in the same manner as amounts 
     provided for the expenses of such Committee by resolution of 
     the House, and shall be distributed equally between the co-
     chairs of the Commission.
       (c) Office of Congressional Ethics.--Section 1 of House 
     Resolution 895, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in 
     the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress in the same manner as such 
     provision applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress, except 
     that--
       (1) the Office of Congressional Ethics shall be treated as 
     a standing committee of the House for purposes of section 
     202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 
     U.S.C. 4301(i));
       (2) references to the Committee on Standards of Official 
     Conduct shall be construed as references to the Committee on 
     Ethics;
       (3) any requirement for concurrence in section 1(b)(1) 
     shall be construed as a requirement for consultation;
       (4) the second sentence of section 1(b)(6)(A) shall not 
     apply;
       (5) members subject to section 1(b)(6)(B) may be 
     reappointed for a third additional term;
       (6) any individual who is the subject of a preliminary 
     review or second-phase review by the board shall be informed 
     of the right to be represented by counsel and invoking that 
     right should not be held negatively against such individual; 
     and
       (7) the Office may not take any action that would deny any 
     person any right or protection provided under the 
     Constitution of the United States.
       (d) Office of Diversity and Inclusion.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established an Office of 
     Diversity and Inclusion of the House of Representatives 
     (hereafter in this clause referred to as the ``Office'').
       (2) Director.--The Speaker, in consultation with the 
     Minority Leader, shall appoint a Director of the Office from 
     recommendations provided by the chair of the Committee on 
     House Administration in consultation with the ranking 
     minority member of such committee.
       (3) Operational plan.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     appointment of the Director of the Office, the Office shall 
     submit to the Committee on House Administration an 
     operational plan for the Office that shall include, 
     consistent with applicable House rules, regulations, and law, 
     a plan for appointing and establishing duties for staff of 
     the Office which shall set forth a proposed maximum number of 
     staff.
       (4) Diversity plan.--Not later than 90 days after 
     submitting the operational plan under paragraph (3), the 
     Office shall submit a diversity plan to the Committee on 
     House Administration for the committee's review and approval, 
     and shall include in the plan the following:
       (A) Policies to direct and guide House employing offices to 
     recruit, hire, train, develop, advance, promote, and retain a 
     diverse workforce, consistent with applicable House rules, 
     regulations, and law.
       (B) The development of a survey, in consultation with the 
     Committee on House Administration, to evaluate diversity in 
     House employing offices.
       (C) A framework for the House of Representatives diversity 
     report required by paragraph (5).
       (D) A proposal for the composition of an Advisory Council 
     that shall, as necessary, inform the work of the Office.
       (E) Any additional components as determined by the 
     Committee on House Administration.
       (5) Diversity report.--At the end of each session of 
     Congress, the Office shall submit a House of Representatives 
     diversity report to the Speaker, the Majority Leader and 
     Minority Leader, the chair and ranking minority member of the 
     Committee on House Administration, and the chair and ranking 
     minority member of the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch 
     of the Committee on Appropriations.
       (6) Regulations.--The Office shall carry out its duties 
     pursuant to regulations issued by the Committee on House 
     Administration.
       (7) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``House 
     employing office'' means--
       (A) the official office of a Member, Delegate, or the 
     Resident Commissioner;
       (B) each committee of the House and each joint committee; 
     and
       (C) any other office of the House.
       (e) Office of the Whistleblower Ombudsman.--
       (1) Establishment.--There is established an Office of the 
     Whistleblower Ombudsman, to be headed by the Whistleblower 
     Ombudsman.
       (2) Appointment.--The Whistleblower Ombudsman shall be 
     appointed by the Speaker in consultation with the chairs and 
     ranking minority members of the Committee on House 
     Administration and the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
       (3) Duties.-- The Whistleblower Ombudsman, under the 
     direction of the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     consultation with any other standing committee and the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (at the request of 
     the chair or ranking minority member of such other 
     committee), shall--
       (A) promulgate best practices for whistleblower intake for 
     offices of the House; and
       (B) provide training for offices of the House on 
     whistleblower intake, including establishing an effective 
     reporting system for whistleblowers, maintaining 
     whistleblower confidentiality, advising staff of relevant 
     laws and policies, and protecting information provided by 
     whistleblowers.
       (f) Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.--
       (1) Establishment; composition.--
       (A) Establishment.--There is hereby established a Select 
     Committee on the Climate Crisis (hereinafter in this 
     subsection referred to as the ``Select Committee'').
       (B) Composition.--The Select Committee shall be composed of 
     15 Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed 
     by the Speaker, of whom 6 shall be appointed on the 
     recommendation of the Minority Leader. The Speaker shall 
     designate one member of the Select Committee as its chair. A 
     vacancy in the membership of the Select Committee shall be 
     filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
       (2) Jurisdiction; functions.--
       (A) Legislative jurisdiction.--The Select Committee shall 
     not have legislative jurisdiction and shall have no authority 
     to take legislative action on any bill or resolution.
       (B) Investigative jurisdiction.--The sole authority of the 
     Select Committee shall be to investigate, study, make 
     findings, and develop recommendations on policies, 
     strategies, and innovations to achieve substantial and 
     permanent reductions in pollution and other activities that 
     contribute to the climate crisis which will honor our 
     responsibility to be good stewards of the planet for future 
     generations. The Select Committee may, at its discretion, 
     hold public hearings in connection with any aspect of its 
     investigative functions.
       (3) Procedure.--(A) Except as specified in subparagraph 
     (B), the Select Committee shall have the authorities and 
     responsibilities of, and shall be subject to the same 
     limitations and restrictions as, a standing committee of the 
     House, and shall be deemed a committee of the House for all 
     purposes of law or rule.
       (B)(i) Rules X and XI shall apply to the Select Committee 
     where not inconsistent with this subsection.
       (ii) Service on the Select Committee shall not count 
     against the limitations in clause 5(b)(2) of rule X.
       (iii) Clause 2(m)(1)(B) of rule XI, clause 2(m)(3) of rule 
     XI, and section 103(a) of this resolution shall not apply to 
     the Select Committee, but the Select Committee may recommend 
     subpoenas and depositions and submit such recommendations to 
     the relevant standing committee.
       (iv) Clause 2(d) of rule X shall not apply to the Select 
     Committee.
       (4) Funding.--To enable the Select Committee to carry out 
     the purposes of this section--
       (A) the Select Committee may use the services of staff of 
     the House; and
       (B) the Select Committee shall be eligible for interim 
     funding pursuant to clause 7 of rule X.
       (5) Reporting.--The Select Committee may report to the 
     House or any committee of the House from time to time the 
     results of its investigations and studies, together with such 
     detailed findings and policy recommendations as it may deem 
     advisable. All such reports shall be submitted to the House 
     by December 31, 2020. All policy recommendations shall be 
     submitted to the relevant standing committees not later than 
     March 31, 2020.
       (6) Publication.--The Select Committee shall ensure that 
     reports and proposals prepared in accordance with this 
     subsection shall, upon completion, be made available to the 
     general public in widely accessible formats not later than 30 
     calendar days following the respective dates for completion 
     set forth in paragraph (5).
     SEC. 105. ORDERS OF BUSINESS.
       (a) The Speaker may recognize a Member, Delegate, and the 
     Resident Commissioner for the reading of the Constitution on 
     any legislative day during the first session of the One 
     Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
       (b) It shall be in order at any time through the 
     legislative day of January 17, 2019, for the Speaker to 
     entertain motions that the
     House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. 
     The Speaker or her designee shall consult with the Minority 
     Leader or his designee on the designation of any matter for 
     consideration pursuant to this section.
       (c) The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
     thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules 
     on the same day it is presented to the House is waived with 
     respect to any resolution reported through the legislative 
     day of January 8, 2019, relating to a measure making or 
     continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2019.
      TITLE II--SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE MODERNIZATION OF CONGRESS
     SEC. 201. SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE MODERNIZATION OF CONGRESS.
       (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a Select 
     Committee on the Modernization of Congress (hereinafter in 
     this section referred to as the ``Select Committee'').
       (b) Composition.--
       (1) The Select Committee shall be composed of 12 Members, 
     Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the 
     Speaker.
       (2) The Speaker shall appoint members of the Select 
     Committee as follows:
       (A) At least 2 members from among Members, Delegates, or 
     the Resident Commissioner serving in their first term.
       (B) At least 2 members from the Committee on Rules.
       (C) At least 2 members from the Committee on House 
     Administration.
       (3) Of the members of the Select Committee appointed 
     pursuant to paragraph (1), 6 shall be appointed on the 
     recommendation of the Minority Leader, including 1 member 
     each as described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of 
     paragraph (2).
       (4) The Speaker shall designate one member of the Select 
     Committee as chair, and, upon recommendation of the Minority 
     Leader, shall designate one member of the Select Committee as 
     vice chair.
       (5) A vacancy in the membership of the Select Committee 
     shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
     appointment.
       (c) Jurisdiction; Functions.--
       (1) Legislative jurisdiction.--The Select Committee shall 
     not have legislative jurisdiction and shall have no authority 
     to take legislative action on any bill or resolution.
       (2) Investigative jurisdiction.--The sole authority of the 
     Select Committee shall be to investigate, study, make 
     findings, hold public hearings, and develop recommendations 
     on modernizing Congress, including recommendations on--
       (A) rules to promote a more modern and efficient Congress;
       (B) procedures, including the schedule and calendar;
       (C) policies to develop the next generation of leaders;
       (D) staff recruitment, diversity, retention, and 
     compensation and benefits;
       (E) administrative efficiencies, including purchasing, 
     travel, outside services, and shared administrative staff;
       (F) technology and innovation; and
       (G) the work of the House Commission on Congressional 
     Mailing Standards.
       (d) Procedures.--
       (1)(A) Except as specified in subparagraph (B), the Select 
     Committee shall have the authorities and responsibilities of, 
     and shall be subject to the same limitations and restrictions 
     as, a standing committee of the House, and shall be deemed a 
     committee of the House for all purposes of law or rule.
       (B)(i) Rules X and XI shall apply to the Select Committee 
     where not inconsistent with this section.
       (ii) Service on the Select Committee shall not count 
     against the limitations in clause 5(b)(2) of rule X.
       (iii) Clause 2(m)(1)(B) of rule XI, clause 2(m)(3) of rule 
     XI, and section 103(a) of this resolution shall not apply to 
     the Select Committee, but the Select Committee may recommend 
     subpoenas and depositions and submit such recommendations to 
     the relevant standing committee.
       (iv) Clause 2(d) of rule X shall not apply to the Select 
     Committee.
       (2) During the first session of the One Hundred Sixteenth 
     Congress, the Select Committee shall hold a hearing at which 
     it receives testimony from Members, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner on matters described in subsection (c).
       (e) Funding.--To enable the Select Committee to carry out 
     the purposes of this section--
       (1) the Select Committee may use the services of staff of 
     the House; and
       (2) the Select Committee shall be eligible for interim 
     funding pursuant to clause 7 of rule X.
       (f) Reports.--
       (1) Interim status report.--Every 90 days, the Select 
     Committee shall provide an interim status report on its 
     activities to the Committee on House Administration and the 
     Committee on Rules. Each interim status report must include 
     transcripts of the Select Committee's proceedings, itemized 
     reporting of its expenditures, and a proposed plan for the 
     next 90 days.
       (2) Findings and recommendations.--The Select Committee may 
     report to the House or any committee from time to time the 
     results of its investigations and studies, together with such 
     detailed findings and policy recommendations as it may deem 
     advisable. The Select Committee may only submit any such 
     report if the report receives the votes of not fewer than 2/3 
     of its members.
       (3) Final report.--At the conclusion of the first session 
     of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, the Select Committee 
     shall submit a final report to the House. The final report 
     shall include the results of the Select Committee's studies, 
     detailed findings, and any policy recommendations as the 
     select committee may deem advisable. The Select Committee may 
     only submit the report if the report receives the votes of 
     not fewer than 2/3 of its members. The Select Committee shall 
     submit all policy recommendations included in the report to 
     relevant standing committees.
       (4) Publication.--The Select Committee shall ensure that 
     reports prepared in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) 
     shall, upon completion, be made available to the general 
     public in widely accessible formats not later than 30 
     calendar days following the date any such report is made 
     available to the House or a committee, as applicable.
       (g) Termination; Disposition of Records.--
       (1) Termination.--The Select Committee shall terminate on 
     February 1, 2020.
       (2) Disposition of records.--Upon its termination, the 
     records of the Select Committee shall be transferred to, and 
     shall become part of, the records of such standing committees 
     as the Speaker may designate.
TITLE III--INTERVENTION IN LITIGATION INVOLVING PATIENT PROTECTION AND 
                          AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
     SEC. 301. FINDINGS.
       The House of Representatives finds the following:
       (1) Texas, Wisconsin, Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Florida, 
     Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Governor Paul LePage of 
     Maine, Mississippi (by and through Governor Phil Bryant), 
     Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Carolina, South 
     Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, and West Virginia have filed suit in 
     the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
     Texas, arguing that the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act (Public Law 111-148; 124 Stat. 119) is 
     unconstitutional and should be enjoined by asserting that the 
     Act's requirement to maintain minimum essential coverage 
     (commonly known as the ``individual responsibility 
     provision'') in section 5000A(a) of the Internal Revenue Code 
     of 1986, is unconstitutional following the amendment of that 
     provision by the Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant 
     to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget 
     for fiscal year 2018 (Public Law 115-97) (commonly known as 
     the ``Tax Cuts and Jobs Act'').
       (2) These State and individual plaintiffs also seek to 
     strike down the entire Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
     Act as not severable from the individual responsibility 
     provision.
       (3) On June 7, 2018, the Department of Justice refused to 
     defend the constitutionality of the amended individual 
     responsibility provision, despite the well-established duty 
     of the Department to defend Federal statutes where reasonable 
     arguments can be made in their defense.
       (4) The Department of Justice not only refused to defend 
     the amended individual responsibility provision, but 
     affirmatively argued that this provision is unconstitutional 
     and that the provisions of the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act guaranteeing issuance of health insurance 
     coverage regardless of health status or preexisting 
     conditions (commonly known as the ``guaranteed issue 
     provision'') found in sections 2702, 2704, and 2705(a) of the 
     Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-1, 300gg-3, 300gg-
     4(a)) and prohibitions on discriminatory premium rates 
     (commonly known as the ``community rating provision'') found 
     in sections 2701 and 2705(b) of the Public Health Service Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 300gg(a)(1), 300gg-4(b)) must now be struck down 
     as not severable from the individual responsibility 
     provision.
       (5) The district court recently held that the individual 
     responsibility provision is unconstitutional and that all of 
     the remaining provisions of the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care act are inseverable and therefore invalid.
       (6) Up to 133 million nonelderly Americans have some type 
     of preexisting health condition, such as, but not limited to, 
     diabetes, high cholesterol, cancer, arthritis, and asthma, 
     that could affect their insurance.
       (7) Prior to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
     and the enactment of protections such as guaranteed issue and 
     community rating, millions of Americans were denied health 
     insurance coverage, were unable to obtain coverage of 
     necessary medical services, or were priced out of the 
     individual market due to preexisting conditions.
       (8) Without such protections for preexisting conditions, 
     millions of Americans could once again lose access to 
     affordable, comprehensive health insurance.
       (9) More than 13 million Americans who gained coverage in 
     States that expanded Medicaid eligibility under the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act could lose coverage if the 
     Act were struck down in its entirety.
       (10) More than 2 million young adults who gained coverage 
     under a provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act allowing individuals under the age of 26 to stay on 
     their parents' insurance could lose coverage if the Act were 
     struck down in its entirety.
       (11) More than 8.9 million low and middle-income Americans 
     who received tax credits averaging $520 per month to help pay 
     for
     health insurance in the individual market under the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act could lose coverage if the 
     Act were struck down in its entirety.
       (12) An estimated 105 million Americans who now enjoy 
     coverage without lifetime limits due to the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act could once again face 
     lifetime limits on their benefits if the Act were struck down 
     in its entirety.
       (13) Nearly 12 million Medicare beneficiaries who received 
     an average of $2,200 in savings on prescription drugs due to 
     the closing of the Medicare prescription drug donut hole 
     under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act would 
     face rising drug costs if the Act were struck down in its 
     entirety.
     SEC. 302. AUTHORIZING LEGAL ACTION BY HOUSE.
       (a) Authorization.--The Speaker, on behalf of the House of 
     Representatives, is authorized to intervene, otherwise 
     appear, or take any other steps in the case of Texas v. 
     United States, No. 4:18-cv-00167-O (N.D. Tex.) and in any 
     appellate proceedings arising from such case. The Speaker, in 
     consultation with the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, is 
     also authorized to intervene, otherwise appear, or take any 
     other steps in any other cases involving the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act to protect the 
     institutional interests of the House and to defend such Act, 
     the amendments made by such Act to other provisions of law, 
     and any amendments to such provisions, including the 
     provisions ensuring affordable health coverage for those with 
     preexisting conditions.
       (b) Role of General Counsel.--The Office of General Counsel 
     of the House of Representatives, at the direction of the 
     Speaker, shall represent the House in any litigation pursuant 
     to this title. The Office of General Counsel may employ the 
     services of outside counsel, including pro bono counsel, or 
     other experts for this purpose.
       (c) Reports on Amounts Expended.--The chair of the 
     Committee on House Administration shall cause to be printed 
     in the Congressional Record a statement setting forth the 
     aggregate amounts expended by the Office of General Counsel 
     on outside counsel and other experts pursuant to this title 
     on a quarterly basis, and such statement shall be submitted 
     for printing not more than 30 days after the expiration of 
     each such quarter.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the question 
shall be divided among each of the three titles of House Resolution 6. 
The previous question is ordered on each portion of the divided 
question, except as specified in sections 2 and 3 of House Resolution 
5.
  The portion of the divided question comprising title I is now 
debatable for 30 minutes.
  The gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Hoyer) and the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McCarthy) each will control 15 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this rules package was developed under the leadershi


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise as the designee of the Republican leader, and I 
thank my good friend, the majority leader, for yielding me 15 minutes.
  Mr. Speaker, a couple of hours ago, we had a spirited debate that 
also reflected the way I hope both sides proceed and intend to approach 
the next 2 years: disagreeing without being disagreeable. In that 
respect, today represents a good start for the new Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, earlier today, I had an opportunity to speak on the 
rules package my Democratic friends are proposing for the 116th 
Congress. I laid out most of what I had to say then, but I want to 
reiterate a few key points.
  First, while, on the whole, I will be opposing this package, I do 
want to commend my friends for including some good bipartisan pieces 
that Republicans certainly can support. We support, for example, 
continuing the practice of Member Day hearings. We support the idea of 
a Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, which we will 
discuss in more detail tomorrow. We are hopeful about other measures, 
such as the 72-hour rule for posting bill text and the proposed 
Consensus Calendar. We look forward to seeing how these proposals work 
in practice.
  Of course, my Democratic friends are also proposing a number of 
measures that we oppose. They are removing key fiscal responsibility 
measures like CutGo, the supermajority for raising income taxes; 
bringing back the so-called Gephardt rule; and deeming the debt limit 
to be suspended upon passage of a new budget by only the House. These 
changes will undoubtedly lead to more spending, more taxes, and more 
debt being piled on the American people.
  We also oppose the granting of the Speaker the authority to intervene 
in the Texas v. United States lawsuit over the legality of the 
Affordable Care Act and the unspecified grant of authority to do 
something, anything, about regulations that the Department of 
Agriculture has not yet issued on SNAP benefits for able-bodied adults. 
Most notably, we oppose the new partisan Select Committee on the 
Climate Crisis with a supermajority of Democrats, in contrast to the 
agreed upon ratio on
other committees, and unclear funding and costs.
  While I continue to hope that, on our side, we proceed appropriately, 
I do not believe this rules package represents the best way to govern 
this institution. The Democrats have chosen today to increase spending, 
add a partisan select committee to the institution, and pave the way to 
pass tax and spend legislation. I do not believe these rules meet the 
lofty goals we aspire to meet of transparency, bipartisanship, and 
ensuring minority views are heard.
  For these reasons, and for others that I stated earlier today, I urge 
opposition to the measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, while I regret that the gentleman opposes the rule, I 
appreciate his bipartisanship and his hope, which I share, that we will 
proceed in a fashion that will make the American people proud. Very 
frankly, we can be proud of ourselves for accomplishing that which the 
American people want accomplished.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend from Massachusetts, Mr. Jim 
McGovern, the chairman of the Rules Committee, to complete our side of 
the argument. He has done such an extraordinary job in putting these 
rules together.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume, 
and I thank the majority leader for yielding me the time.
  Mr. Speaker, a rules package may seem like some arcane technicality, 
a simple legislative move on the opening day of a Congress, but it is 
really much more than that. This is our first opportunity to declare 
what kind of institution this House will be. I am proud that, through 
collaboration and conversation, we have drafted a rules package that 
boldly declares that it is a new day for Congress.
  This package reflects the diversity of our new majority. Ideas are 
included here from Members that represent urban and rural parts of the 
country, longtime leaders and those who have taken the oath of office 
for the very first time today. We come from different backgrounds and 
have been elected here on different platforms. But each of us shares 
the same goal: making this place work again, not just function better 
legislatively, though that is important, but also respond more urgently 
to the needs of the people that we represent.
  That is why this rules package sets up consideration of H.R. 1, 
historic reforms to clean up money in politics. It creates the Select 
Committee on the Climate Crisis. It strengthens representation by 
giving voting rights to Delegates and the Resident Commissioner in the 
Committee of the Whole and ensures that they can be appointed to joint 
committees. It prohibits Members and staff from serving on boards of 
publicly traded companies. It eliminates CutGo and creates the first 
ever diversity office. I can go on and on and on.
  This rules package isn't some totally partisan document. It includes 
ideas from my friends on the other side of the aisle, too, because when 
I said at the start of this process that I wanted to hear from all 
Members, I meant it. Good ideas were included here regardless of what 
side of the aisle they come from. Changes like creating a Consensus 
Calendar to move ideas with broad support more quickly to the floor, 
reforming the motion to vacate the Chair, and striking the 3-day rule 
for committee markups are here because we took such a collaborative 
approach, and this package is stronger for it.
  Make no mistake, no one abandoned their principles. I am a 
progressive, and I know the Republican minority would never agree with 
me on priorities like healthcare or the environment. There are things 
here I know they wouldn't put in their own package. But in talking to 
each other to see where we agreed, there was actually agreement on many 
legislative reforms.
  I know that there are many Members here who will think of more ideas 
for how to improve this place, and I want to hear them, and our 
leadership does, too. That is why we are creating a truly bipartisan 
Select Committee on Modernizing Congress, so our efforts don't stop 
here today. These conversations can continue, and good ideas can keep 
moving forward.
  There has never been a process like this to develop a rules package. 
This has been unprecedented, and we have a historic set of reforms here 
as a result. They send a signal to the American people and Members here 
that the 116th Congress will be different, that it is a new era, that 
we are abandoning procedures that didn't work, and we are adopting new 
ideas.
  This Democratic majority is giving all Members a voice. We are 
listening to the American people, and we are holding this 
administration accountable. This will be a more accommodating 
institution as a result, a more responsive House and a place that looks 
more like the real world.
  That is what is at the heart of what we are debating. Right here, on 
day one, we have a chance to vote to be a different kind of Congress, 
one that turns the page on the past and charts a new course.
  The American people demanded a new direction by a 10 million vote 
margin. I know my colleagues in the majority want to see one, too, and 
even some of my Republican friends acknowledge that something has to 
change, so this is our chance. I strongly urge my colleagues to take 
this opportunity. Let's vote for this rules package and give Members 
and the American people the Congress that they deserve.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Womack), my good friend.


Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H. Res. 6. I appreciate 
the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) and the new majority 
leadership including items of budget process reform in this package, to 
include eliminating term limits for the House Budget Committee members. 
There are other things that we did, as a joint bipartisan committee, 
and tried to get across the finish line but were unable to do so. 
Perhaps we can work on some of those.
  Mr. Speaker, for the few bright spots that H. Res. 6 has, they in no 
way make up for the shortcomings. This package does not rise to fiscal 
responsibility.
  First, it includes a new iteration of the Gephardt rule, which has 
been spoken about, that makes increasing the debt limit even easier by 
automatically passing debt limit increases without separate debate and 
vote.
  The package also replaces the existing budget enforcement rule known 
as CutGo with a paygo rule that was in place when Democrats passed many 
programs in the past, like ObamaCare, that added to our country's debt 
burden. To be clear, paygo does not encourage fiscal discipline under a 
Democratic majority.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 6 reduces the threshold for passage of 
income tax increases on hardworking Americans from three-fifths to a 
simple majority vote. I am not surprised that the first step that the 
Democrats take in this process is surrendering the obligation to 
approve increases to the debt and enacting rules that make it easier to 
borrow and raise taxes.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote against this rules package.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, in response to the gentleman, we had a CBS News report 
posted today that the U.S. Treasury shows that the national debt ended 
in 2018 more than $2 trillion larger than on the day President Trump 
took office.
  With all due respect to my friends on the other side of the aisle, 
your CutGo didn't work. It is a sham. What the majority presided over 
are record-breaking deficits, increases in the deficit and in the debt, 
so I think we need to take a very different approach.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a section-by-section analysis of 
the changes H. Res. 6 will make to the standing rules of the 115th 
Congress and the separate orders taking effect for the 116th Congress.
  
                               H. Res. 6
               Adopting the Rules for the 116th Congress
                      Section-by-Section Analysis
          Title I. Rules of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress
     Section 101. Adoption of the Rules of the One Hundred 
         Fifteenth Congress.
       This section provides that the Rules of the 115th Congress 
     are the Rules of the 116th Congress, except for the 
     amendments contained in section 102 of the resolution and 
     orders contained in the resolution.
     Section 102. Changes to the Standing Rules.
       Notification of Convening of the House. Subsection (a) 
     clarifies that Delegates and the Resident Commissioner must 
     be notified of action regarding the convening of the House 
     pursuant to clause 12 of rule I.
       Voting by Delegates and the Resident Commissioner in the 
     Committee of the Whole. Subsection (b) extends the same 
     powers and privileges of Members to Delegates and the 
     Resident Commissioner when in the Committee of the Whole. The 
     subsection also provides that any recorded vote in the 
     Committee of the Whole, decided within a margin where the 
     Delegates and the Resident Commissioner may have had a 
     decisive impact on the final outcome of the vote, will be re-
     conducted in the House.
       Allowing Delegates and the Resident Commissioner to Serve 
     on Joint Committees. Subsection (c) provides that Delegates 
     and the Resident Commissioner may serve on joint committees.
       Admittance to the Hall of the House. Subsection (d) adds 
     Delegates-elect, the Resident Commissioner-elect, contestants 
     in elections for Delegate or the Resident Commissioner, and 
     Governors of the Territories to the list of people who are 
     permitted in the Hall of the House.
       Office of Speaker. Subsection (e) amends rule IX to provide 
     that a resolution causing a vacancy in the Office of Speaker 
     shall be privileged if offered at the direction of a party 
     caucus or conference. This change does not otherwise alter 
     the application of rule IX to privileged resolutions. A 
     resolution causing a vacancy in the Office of Speaker offered 
     at the direction of a party caucus or conference remains 
     subject to the notice and debate procedures in clause 2(a) of 
     rule IX. This change does not apply to a resolution reported 
     as privileged by the Committee on Ethics pursuant to clause 
     5(a)(5) of rule XIII.
       Designating Committee on Oversight and Reform. Subsection 
     (f) changes the name of the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
       Designating Committee on Education and Labor. Subsection 
     (g) changes the name of the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce back to the Committee on Education and Labor.
       Education and Labor Jurisdiction Clarification. Subsection 
     (h) clarifies that the Committee on Education and Labor's 
     jurisdiction includes the general management of the 
     Department of Education and the general management of the 
     Department of Labor. This change is intended to clarify the 
     Committee's existing jurisdiction over the organization and 
     administration of the departments, and it not intended to 
     alter jurisdiction over programs within the departments.
       Committee Oversight Plans. Subsection (i) amends the 
     requirements for committee oversight plans. The subsection 
     requires the chair of each standing committee (with the 
     exception of the Committees on Appropriations, Ethics, and 
     Rules), in consultation with the ranking minority member, to 
     prepare and submit an oversight plan to the Committees on 
     House Administration and Oversight and Reform by March 1 of 
     the first session of a Congress. Finally, the Committee on 
     Oversight and Reform, in consultation with House leadership 
     of both parties, is required to submit the oversight plans to 
     the House by April 15th of the first session of a Congress 
     with any recommendation it has for the effective coordination 
     of oversight plans.
       The subsection favors the standard of previous Congresses 
     over the 115th Congress, requiring an oversight plan as 
     opposed to the 115th Congress's new authorization and 
     oversight plan. The March 1st submission deadline is an 
     extension from the prior February 15th deadline. The 
     subsection also replaces the requirement for a committee 
     meeting on the plan with a requirement that the chair consult 
     with the ranking minority member, make the plan available to 
     each member of the committee for at least seven calendar 
     days, and include any committee member's views received 
     before the submission deadline. This subsection also modifies 
     which committees will initially receive these plans, removing 
     the Committee on Appropriations. Finally, the Committee on 
     Oversight and Reform's April 15th submission deadline to the 
     House is in line with the subsection's new timeline.
       Activity Reports. Subsection (j) amends language in clauses 
     1(d)(2)(B) and 1(d)(2)(C) of Rule XI referencing 
     authorization and oversight plans to conform with the changes 
     described in subsection (i).
       Oversight Over the Executive Office of the President. 
     Subsection (k) clarifies the Committee on Oversight and 
     Reform's existing special oversight authority over all 
     operations of government.
       Oversight and Reform Committee Depositions. Subsection (I) 
     removes the requirement that Members be present during 
     counsel-led depositions, returning to the standard of the 
     111th Congress.
       Removing Certain Committee Term Limits. Subsection (m) 
     removes term limits for committee chairs as well as members 
     of the Committee on the Budget.
       Rules of Committees. Subsection (n) extends the deadline 
     for committees to make their rules available to the public 
     from 30 days to 60 days after the chair's election at the 
     beginning of a Congress. This change is intended to grant 
     committees adequate time to organize, as some committees do 
     not have a full complement of members at the start of a 
     Congress.
       Committee Markup Notice. Subsection (o) modifies the three-
     day notification requirement for committee markups by 
     specifying that Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays, except 
     when the House is in session, do not count toward fulfillment 
     of the notification requirement.
       Annual Ethics Training. Subsection (p) extends the annual 
     ethics training requirement to all Members, Delegates, and 
     the Resident Commissioner. The previous rule required new 
     Members, Delegates, and Resident Commissioner to attend 
     ethics training, and staff to attend ethics training 
     annually.
       Considering Criminal Trial Evidence in Ethics 
     Investigation. Subsection (q) authorizes the Committee on 
     Ethics to consider as evidence the transcripts and exhibits 
     from trial where a Member, Delegate, or the Resident 
     Commissioner was convicted by a court of record for a crime 
     related to the subject of the investigation by the Committee 
     on Ethics.
       Consensus Calendar. Subsection (r) creates a Consensus 
     Calendar, and mandates that the Speaker must designate, and 
     the House must consider, at least one measure on the 
     Consensus Calendar during any week in which the House 
     convenes (except at the beginning and the end of a Congress). 
     The designation is accomplished via an announcement from the 
     chair immediately prior to a measure's consideration. 
     Measures may be considered in any manner otherwise available 
     under the rules to satisfy this requirement.
       This subsection also provides that, to be eligible for 
     placement on the Consensus Calendar, a measure must 
     accumulate 290 cosponsors, and must not have been reported by 
     its primary committee of jurisdiction. Once this 
     cosponsorship threshold is reached the sponsor of the measure 
     may, while the House is in session, submit to the Clerk a 
     written motion to place the measure on the Consensus 
     Calendar. If the above-mentioned conditions have been met, 
     the Clerk will note the motion's submission in the 
     Congressional Record of that day, and enter the motion on a 
     comprehensive list of Consensus Calendar Motions (which will 
     be viewable on the Clerk's website). Once a measure that was 
     the subject of a properly filed motion has maintained 290 
     cosponsors for a cumulative total of 25 legislative days, it 
     is placed on the Consensus Calendar, where it remains until 
     it is considered in the House or reported by its primary 
     committee. The 25-legislative day count begins on the 
     legislative day after a proper motion is filed, and the 
     required 25 legislative days need not run contiguously to be 
     counted. Any day on which the measure has less than 290 
     cosponsors shall not count towards the 25-day cumulative 
     total. A Consensus Calendar motion is considered withdrawn if 
     the measure that is the subject of such motion is reported by 
     its primary committee before the measure has been placed on 
     the Consensus Calendar. However, once the measure has been 
     placed on the Consensus' Calendar it remains there even if it 
     falls below 290 cosponsors after such placement.
       Recorded Votes in Rules Committee Reports. Subsection (s) 
     provides that the requirement for recorded votes to be 
     depicted in committee reports applies to reports from the 
     Committee on Rules on a rule, joint rule, or the order of 
     business only to the maximum extent practicable, due to the 
     constricted timeframe under which such reports are prepared 
     and filed. This change is intended to ensure special rules--
     and thus the floor schedule--cannot be delayed due to a 
     typographical error in the recorded votes depiction.
       72-Hour Text Availability. Subsection (t) requires that 
     legislative text be made publicly available for a full 72 
     hours before it is considered in the House. Previously, 
     legislative text could not be considered before ``the third 
     day'' on which it had been available to Members, Delegates, 
     and the Resident Commissioner. The new 72-hour availability 
     requirement would apply to the same types of text to which 
     the former three-day availability rules applied: reports 
     accompanying measures or matters (clause 4(a)(1) of rule 
     XIII); unreported bills and joint resolutions (clause 11 of 
     rule XXI); conference reports (clause 8(a)(1)(A) of rule 
     XXII); and amendments reported from conference in 
     disagreement (clause 8(b)(1)(A) of rule XXII). In all cases, 
     the 72-hour clock would begin to run at the time that the 
     relevant text is made available electronically. The 
     additional language inserted in clause 4(a)(1) of rule XIII 
     regarding the proposed text of a report is intended to ensure 
     that, in the case of reports, the 72-hour clock will begin to 
     run at the time the proposed content of a report (other than 
     any supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views 
     described in clause 2(1) of rule XI) is made available 
     electronically. It is important to note that the 72-hour 
     availability period for a committee report is calculated 
     differently than the two-day period
     for filing supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting 
     views. As a result, there is the potential that the two 
     periods could conflict if proposed report text is made 
     available prior to the filing of the report. Therefore, any 
     committee making the report available electronically must 
     also make any such views available electronically promptly 
     after they are submitted to the committee to avoid the 
     possibility that the House would consider a measure prior to 
     the availability of the complete accompanying report.
       Macroeconomic Analysis. Subsection (u) removes the 
     requirement that the Congressional Budget Office and Joint 
     Committee on Taxation make assumptions, to the extent 
     practicable, regarding changes in macroeconomic variables 
     (often called ``dynamic scoring'') when preparing estimates 
     on the budgetary effects of major legislation.
       Discharge Petitions. Subsection (v) amends the discharge 
     petition process. The subsection expands the number of days 
     on which motions to discharge, following a perfected 
     discharge petition, may be considered by removing the 
     provision that currently restricts motions to discharge to 
     the second and fourth Mondays of a month. Instead, the 
     subsection requires the Speaker to schedule the consideration 
     of a privileged motion to discharge within two legislative 
     days after the day on which a Member who signed the discharge 
     petition announces to the House an intention to offer a 
     motion to discharge. A motion to discharge may only be called 
     up by the Member who gave notice under this rule.
       Private Calendar. Subsection (w) expands the availability 
     of the discretionary call of the Private Calendar beyond the 
     third Tuesday of a month, permitting the Speaker or a 
     designee to call up eligible private measures on any day with 
     sufficient notice. The subsection requires the measure to 
     have been on the Private Calendar for at least seven days, 
     after which the Speaker or a designee may announce to the 
     House an intention to call up the measure. That measure then 
     may be called up two legislative days after the legislative 
     day on which the announcement is made, after the disposal of 
     such business on the Speaker's table as requires reference 
     only. The level of specificity in timing is intended to 
     ensure that the Official Objectors are able to be on the 
     Floor at the appropriate day and time.
       Religious Headdress. Subsection (x) clarifies and maintains 
     the existing prohibition on wearing hats in the Hall of the 
     House, while making express that this prohibition does not 
     include religious headwear. The language for this 
     clarification is modeled on the statutory provision providing 
     for proper decorum during the Pledge of Allegiance, 4 U.S.C. 
     4.
       Quorum in the Committee of the Whole. Subsection (y) 
     clarifies that Delegates and the Resident Commissioner count 
     when establishing a quorum in the Committee of the Whole and 
     when determining if the requisite number are present to 
     request a recorded vote therein. The subsection also 
     instructs the Chair to include Delegates and the Resident 
     Commissioner when determining if Members are provided 
     adequate opportunity to vote. This change conforms clause 6 
     of rule XVIII to the changes made to the House rules in 
     subsection (b).
       Two-Minute Voting in the Committee of the Whole. Subsection 
     (z) provides the Chair of the Committee of the Whole with 
     additional discretion to reduce votes to two minutes, if in 
     the discretion of the Chair Members, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner would be afforded an adequate 
     opportunity to vote.
       Postponability of Certain Votes. Subsection (aa) provides 
     that any vote on an amendment in the House is postponable, as 
     is a vote on ordering the previous question thereon.
       Discretion for Five-Minute Votes. Subsection (bb) provides 
     the Speaker with additional discretion to reduce votes to 5 
     minutes, if in the discretion of the Speaker Members would be 
     afforded an adequate opportunity to vote.
       Net Increase in Budget Authority. Subsection (cc) removes 
     the point of order prohibiting amendments to general 
     appropriation bills that propose a net increase in the level 
     of budget authority in a bill. This will allow amendments 
     that increase spending without offsetting that increase, so 
     long as the amendment does not cause the bill to exceed 
     302(a) or 302(b) budget allocations.
       Removing Supermajority Vote. Subsection (dd) removes the 
     requirement that the House agree by at least a 3/5 
     supermajority in order to raise revenue through additional 
     Federal income taxes. The subsection also removes the 
     requirement that any such measure receives an automatic 
     record vote, and provides a technical fix to a cross-
     reference in clause 5(a)(2) of rule XXI.
       Pay-As-You-Go Point of Order. Subsection (ee) reinstates 
     the PAYGO rule from the 111th Congress, with changes to 
     conform with the recent practice of tying the measurement 
     timeline to the calendar year, rather than the last completed 
     budget resolution. As in the 111th Congress, this provision 
     establishes a point of order against any measure that has a 
     net effect of increasing the deficit or reducing the 
     surplus for the current fiscal year, the budget year, and 
     up to nine fiscal years following that budget year. The 
     subsection stipulates that the net budgetary effects of a 
     measure will be determined by the non-partisan 
     Congressional Budget Office (CBO) but provides that if a 
     measure is considered pursuant to a special order that 
     instructs the Clerk of the House to add the measure to 
     another measure passed by the House, then the net 
     budgetary effects of the entire package will be 
     considered. Finally, the subsection provides for 
     exemptions, given an emergency designation.
       Banning Discrimination on the Basis of Sexual Orientation 
     or Gender Identity. Subsection (ff) adds to the Code of 
     Official Conduct a prohibition on discrimination by any 
     Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner, officer, or employee 
     of the House on the basis of sexual orientation or gender 
     identity.
       Banning Sexual Relationships Between Members and Committee 
     Staff. Subsection (gg) extends the prohibition on sexual 
     relationships between members (including Delegates and the 
     Resident Commissioner) and their employees to include members 
     who serve on a committee on which a staffer works, even if 
     that staffer is not his or her direct employee.
       Service of Indicted Members in Leadership and on 
     Committees. Subsection (hh) adds to the Code of Official 
     Conduct the standard that a Member, Delegate, or Resident 
     Commissioner who has been indicted or formally charged with 
     criminal conduct for a felony offense punishable by at least 
     two years in prison should resign from any committee on which 
     he or she serves, and step aside from any party caucus or 
     conference leadership position the Member, Delegate, or 
     Resident Commissioner holds, until he or she is acquitted or 
     the charges are dismissed or reduced below the previously 
     described threshold.
       Banning Members, Officers, and Employees from Sitting on 
     Corporate Boards. Subsection (ii) prohibits Members, 
     Delegates and the Resident Commissioner, officers, and 
     employees of the House from serving as an officer or director 
     of any public company, effective January 1, 2020. The 
     subsection also requires the Committee on Ethics to develop 
     regulations by December 31, 2019, addressing other types of 
     prohibited service or positions that could lead to conflicts 
     of interest.
       Suspension of the Debt Limit. Subsection (jj) provides that 
     when the House adopts a budget resolution, a separate joint 
     resolution suspending the Federal debt limit through 
     September 30 of the budget year is deemed to have passed the 
     House by the same vote and is engrossed separately and sent 
     to the Senate.
     Section 103. Separate Orders.
       Deposition Authority. Subsection (a) provides the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence and each standing committee 
     of the 116th Congress (except for the Committee on Rules) the 
     authority to order the taking of a deposition by a member or 
     counsel of such committee. Members, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner may participate in all such 
     depositions, but their presence is not required. Depositions 
     taken under this authority are subject to regulations issued 
     by the chair of the Committee on Rules and printed in the 
     Congressional Record.
       Providing for Transparency with Respect to Memorials 
     Submitted Pursuant to Article V of the Constitution of the 
     United States. Subsection (b) carries forward provisions from 
     the 115th Congress that clarify the procedures of the House 
     regarding the receipt of Article V memorials from the States 
     by directing the Clerk to make each memorial, designated by 
     the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary, electronically 
     available, organized by State of origin and year of receipt, 
     and indicate whether the memorial was designated as an 
     application or rescission.
       In carrying out this subsection, it is expected that the 
     chair of the Committee on the Judiciary will be solely 
     charged with determining whether a memorial purports to be an 
     application of the legislature of a state calling for a 
     constitutional convention or rescission of prior 
     applications. The Clerk's role will be entirely 
     administrative. The chair of the Committee on the Judiciary 
     will only designate memorials from state legislatures (and 
     not petitions from individuals or other parties), as it is 
     only state legislatures that are contemplated under Article V 
     of the Constitution.
       In submitting each memorial to the Clerk, the chair of the 
     Committee on the Judiciary will include a transmission letter 
     that indicates it has been designated under this subsection 
     of House Resolution 6. The Clerk will make publicly available 
     the memorial and the transmission letter from the chair. 
     Ancillary documentation from the state or other parties is 
     not expected to be publicized.
       The chair of the Committee on the Judiciary is also 
     permitted to designate memorials from Congresses prior to the 
     116th Congress to be made publicly available under the same 
     procedure.
       Limitation on Advance Appropriations. Subsection (c) 
     prohibits fiscal year 2019 general appropriation bills or 
     measures continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2019 from 
     making advance appropriations, apart from exceptions 
     designated by the chair of the Committee on the Budget.
       Exercise Facilities for Former Members. Subsection (d) 
     continues the prohibition on access to any exercise facility 
     that is made available exclusively to Members, Delegates, the 
     Resident Commissioner, former Members, former Delegates, 
     former Resident Commissioners, officers, and former officers 
     of the House and their spouses to any former Member, former 
     Delegate, former Resident Commissioner, former officer, or 
     spouse who is a lobbyist registered under the Lobbying 
     Disclosure Act of 1995.
       Numbering of Bills. Subsection (e) reserves the first 10 
     numbers for bills (H.R. 1 through H.R. 10) for assignment by 
     the Speaker and the second 10 numbers (H.R. 11 through H.R. 
     20) for assignment by the Minority Leader.
       Inclusion of Citations for Proposed Repeals and Amendments. 
     Subsection (f) continues from the 115th Congress a 
     requirement, to the maximum extent practicable, for parallel 
     citations for amendatory instructions to Public Laws and 
     Statutes at Large that are not classified in the U.S. Code.
       Broadening Availability of Legislative Documents in 
     Machine-Readable Formats. Subsection (g) continues from the 
     115th Congress a requirement to instruct the appropriate 
     officers and committees to continue to advance government 
     transparency by taking further steps to publish documents of 
     the House in machine-readable formats.
       Subcommittees. Subsection (h) waives clause 5(d) of rule X 
     to allow the Committee on Agriculture up to six 
     subcommittees, which is consistent with authorities in the 
     114th and 115th Congresses, and the Committee on Financial 
     Services up to seven subcommittees.
       Requiring Committee Hearing and Markup on Bills and Joint 
     Resolutions. Subsection (i) provides, effective March 1, 
     2019, a point of order against the consideration of a bill or 
     joint resolution pursuant to a special order of business 
     reported by the Committee on Rules if such measure has not 
     been reported by at least one committee. The provision also 
     provides a point of order against any bill or joint 
     resolution reported by committee if the report does not 
     contain a list of relevant committee and subcommittee 
     hearings, which includes the designation of at least one such 
     hearing that was used to develop or consider the underlying 
     measure. Finally, the provision provides exceptions to the 
     points of order for continuing resolutions, measures that 
     contain specified emergency designations pursuant to the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, and 
     measures on the Consensus Calendar designated for 
     consideration pursuant to clause 7(a) of rule XV.
       Member Day Hearing Requirement. Subsection (j) requires 
     each standing committee (except for the Committee on Ethics) 
     to hold a Member Day Hearing during the first session of the 
     116th Congress to hear testimony from Members, Delegates, and 
     the Resident Commissioner--whether or not they are a member 
     of the committee--on proposed legislation within its 
     jurisdiction. The subsection permits the Committee on Rules 
     to hold its Member Day Hearing during the second session, in 
     order to receive testimony on proposed changes to the 
     standing rules for the next Congress.
       Empaneling Investigative Subcommittee of the Committee on 
     Ethics. Subsection (k) reinstates House Resolution 451 from 
     the 110th Congress, directing the Committee on Ethics to 
     empanel an investigative subcommittee or issue a report 
     within 30 days of the date a Member, Delegate, or the 
     Resident Commissioner is indicted or criminal charges are 
     filed. The subsection updates any references in House 
     Resolution 451 to the Committee on Standards of Official 
     Conduct to be references to the Committee on Ethics.
       War Powers Resolution. Subsection (I) expressly provides 
     that any motion to discharge a measure introduced pursuant to 
     section 6 or section 7 of the War Powers Resolution would not 
     be subject to a motion to table. House action on similar 
     House procedures has made it unclear as to whether such a 
     motion to table would be available. The order serves to 
     provide certainty for all Members, Delegates, and the 
     Resident Commissioner on this procedure.
       Budget Matters. Subsection (m) reestablishes that the 
     allocations, aggregates, and other appropriate levels 
     contained in the statement of the chair of the Committee on 
     the Budget of May 10, 2018, as adjusted during the 115th 
     Congress, are effective pending the adoption of an FY19 
     budget resolution. The subsection also provides that the 
     provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 71 from the 115th 
     Congress, effective pursuant to section 30104(f)(1) of the 
     Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, will no longer be in effect 
     except for sections 5201, 5202, 5203, and 5401.
       Legal Issues Related to the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act. Subsection (n) authorizes the Speaker, 
     on behalf of the House, to intervene, otherwise appear, or 
     take any other steps in Texas v. United States, No. 4:18-cv-
     00167-0 (N.D. Tex.), or any other case involving the 
     constitutionality or legality of any provision of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act, including provisions 
     ensuring affordable health coverage for those with 
     preexisting conditions.
       Legal Issues Related to the Supplemental Nutrition 
     Assistance Program. Subsection (o) directs the Office of 
     General Counsel of the House of Representatives to explore 
     all possible legal options for responding to any rulemaking 
     by the United States Department of Agriculture, on or after 
     December 20, 2018, to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
     Program involving requirements for able-bodied adults without 
     dependents.
       Congressional Member Organization Transparency Reform. 
     Subsection (p) allows participating Members to enter into 
     agreements with eligible Congressional Member Organizations 
     for the purpose of payment of salaries and expenses and 
     expands the definition of Congressional Member Organizations 
     from the 114th and 115th Congresses. The subsection requires 
     that for the organization to be eligible during the 116th 
     Congress, the organization must register with the Committee 
     on House Administration, designate a single Member to be 
     responsible for the administration of the organization, have 
     at least 3 employees assigned to perform some work for the 
     organization, and had at least 15 Members during the 115th 
     Congress using a portion of their Members' Representational 
     Allowance (MRA) to pay for the salaries and expenses of the 
     organization.
       Non-Disclosure Agreements. Subsection (q) provides that 
     Non-Disclosure Agreements required by offices as a condition 
     of employment for paid or unpaid staff or contractors cannot 
     require notice or approval for employees to communicate with 
     the Committee on Ethics, the Office of Congressional 
     Workplace Rights, or any other office or entity designated by 
     the Committee on House Administration; and that Non-
     Disclosure Agreements must also provide clear guidance to 
     that effect.
       Requiring Members to Pay for Discrimination Settlements. 
     Subsection (r) requires a Member, Delegate, or the Resident 
     Commissioner to reimburse the Treasury for any settlement of 
     a complaint related to a claim alleging a violation by the 
     Member of sections 201(a), 206(a), or 207 of the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, which cover 
     discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex (which the 
     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission recognizes as 
     including sexual orientation and gender identity), national 
     origin, disability, or an employee's service in the uniformed 
     services, and retaliation for claims alleging such 
     discrimination.
       Mandatory Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policies 
     for House Offices. Subsection (s) requires each House office 
     to adopt an anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policy. 
     Identical language was passed by the House in House 
     Resolution 724 in the 115th Congress. It requires the 
     Committee on House Administration to issue regulations to 
     carry out the subsection by April 1, 2019.
       Displaying Statement of Rights and Protections Provided to 
     House Employees. Subsection (t) directs the Committee on 
     House Administration to issue regulations requiring each 
     House office to prominently display a statement of the rights 
     and protections provided to House employees under the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, including 
     procedures available to employees for responding to and 
     adjudicating allegations of workplace rights violations. 
     Identical language was passed by the House in the 115th 
     Congress in House Resolution 630.
     Section 104. Committees, Commissions, and House Offices.
       House Democracy Partnership. Subsection (a) reauthorizes 
     the House Democracy Assistance Commission, now known as the 
     House Democracy Partnership.
       Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. Subsection (b) 
     reauthorizes the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. The 
     subsection carries forward and makes modest modifications to 
     provisions from the 115th Congress to reaffirm that the 
     commission's budget is in addition to and separate from the 
     House Committee on Foreign Affairs' budget, and to ensure 
     equal distribution of funding between the commission's co-
     chairs to reflect the bipartisan structure of the commission. 
     It authorizes $52,000 for staff and resources in the first 
     quarter of 2019.
       Office of Congressional Ethics. Subsection (c) reauthorizes 
     the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE) and carries forward 
     provisions from the 115th Congress without substantive 
     revision.
       Office of Diversity and Inclusion. Subsection (d) 
     establishes the Office of Diversity and Inclusion in the 
     House of Representatives. The subsection instructs the 
     Speaker, in consultation with the Minority Leader, to appoint 
     a Director from recommendations provided by the chair of the 
     Committee on House Administration, in consultation with the 
     ranking minority member. The subsection establishes a 60-day 
     deadline after the appointment of the Director for the Office 
     to submit an operational plan to the Committee on House 
     Administration. Within 90 days of submitting the operational 
     plan, the Office is required to submit a diversity plan to 
     the Committee on House Administration for review and 
     approval.
       The diversity plan must include: (1) policies to direct and 
     guide House offices to recruit, hire, train, develop, 
     advance, promote and retain a diverse workforce; (2) the 
     development of a survey to evaluate diversity in House 
     offices; (3) a framework for the House of Representatives 
     diversity report; and (4) a proposal for the composition of 
     an Advisory Council to inform the work of the Office.
       The subsection also requires the Office to submit a House 
     of Representatives diversity report at the end of each 
     session of Congress to the Speaker, the Majority and Minority 
     Leaders, and the chairs and ranking minority members of the 
     Committee on House Administration and the Subcommittee on the 
     Legislative Branch of the Committee on Appropriations.
       Office of the Whistleblower Ombudsman. Subsection (e) 
     establishes an Office of the Whistleblower Ombudsman and 
     authorizes the Speaker, in consultation with the chairs and 
     ranking minority members of the Committees on House 
     Administration and Oversight and Reform, to appoint a 
     Whistleblower Ombudsman. The subsection also instructs the 
     Whistleblower Ombudsman, under the direction of the Committee 
     on House Administration and in consultation with other 
     committees at the request of their chairs, to develop best 
     practices for whistleblower intake for House offices and 
     provide trainings to House offices on how to
     safely receive information from whistleblowers.
       Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. Subsection (f) 
     establishes a Select Committee on the Climate Crisis to 
     investigate, study, make findings, and develop 
     recommendations on policies, strategies, and innovations to 
     achieve substantial and permanent reductions in pollution and 
     other activities that contribute to the climate crisis. The 
     Select Committee is authorized to hold hearings and may 
     report to the House or any committee the results of its 
     investigations and studies, together with any detailed 
     findings and policy recommendations it deems advisable. The 
     subsection requires that it issue all policy recommendations 
     to the relevant standing committees by March 31, 2020 and 
     submit all reports to the House by December 31, 2020.
       The Speaker is directed to appoint 15 Members, Delegates, 
     or the Resident Commissioner to serve on the Select Committee 
     and to designate one of its members to serve as the chair. 
     Six of the 15 members must be appointed on the recommendation 
     of the Minority Leader.
       The Select Committee will be governed by Rules X and XI, 
     except as provided in the subsection. The subsection does not 
     extend subpoena and deposition authority to the Select 
     Committee, but authorizes the Select Committee to submit 
     subpoena and deposition recommendations to the relevant 
     standing committees.
     Section 105. Orders of Business.
       Subsection (a) allows the Speaker to recognize Members, 
     Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner for the reading of 
     the Constitution on any legislative day during the first 
     session of the 116th Congress.
       Subsection (b) grants the Speaker authority to consider 
     bills under suspension of the rules through the legislative 
     day of January 17, 2019.
       Subsection (c) grants the House authority, through the 
     legislative day of January 8, 2019, to adopt a report from 
     the Committee on Rules through a majority vote on the same 
     day it is filed, if the resolution reported is related to a 
     measure making or continuing appropriations for the fiscal 
     year ending September 30, 2019.
      Title II. Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress.
       Title II establishes a Select Committee on the 
     Modernization of Congress to investigate, study, make 
     findings, hold public hearings, and develop recommendations 
     on modernizing Congress. Topics for investigation include: 
     (1) rules to promote a more modern and efficient Congress; 
     (2) procedures including the schedule and calendar; (3) 
     policies to develop the next generation of leaders; (4) staff 
     recruitment, diversity, retention, and compensation and 
     benefits; (5) administrative efficiencies; (6) technology and 
     innovation; and (7) the Franking Commission.
       The title requires the Select Committee to provide interim 
     status reports to the Committee on House Administration and 
     the Committee on Rules. It authorizes the Select Committee to 
     report the results of investigations and studies to the House 
     on a rolling basis, along with detailed findings and policy 
     recommendations, and requires a final such report at the end 
     of the first session of the 116th Congress. All policy 
     recommendations must be agreed to by at least 2/3 of the 
     Select Committee's members.
       The Speaker is directed to appoint 12 Members, Delegates, 
     or the Resident Commissioner to serve on the Select 
     Committee, including two members serving in their first term, 
     two members of the Committee on Rules, and two members from 
     the Committee on House Administration. Six of the 12 members 
     must be appointed on the recommendation of the Minority 
     Leader, including one member from each of the three described 
     categories. The Speaker is directed to designate a chair, 
     and, on the recommendation of the Minority Leader, a vice 
     chair.
       The Select Committee will be governed by Rules X and XI, 
     except as provided in the subsection. The subsection does not 
     extend subpoena and deposition authority to the Select 
     Committee, but authorizes the Select Committee to submit 
     subpoena and deposition recommendations to the relevant 
     standing committees. The Select Committee is required to hold 
     a Member Day Hearing.
Title III. Intervention in Litigation Involving Patient Protection and 
                          Affordable Care Act.
       Title III authorizes the Speaker, on behalf of the House, 
     to intervene, otherwise appear, or take any other steps, in 
     the case Texas v. United States, No. 4:18-cv-00167-O (N.D. 
     Tex.), in any appellate proceedings arising from such case. 
     In addition, Title III authorizes the Speaker, in 
     consultation with the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, to 
     intervene, otherwise appear, or take any other steps in any 
     other cases involving the Patient Protection and Affordable 
     Care Act, to protect the institutional interests of the House 
     and to defend such act and the amendments made by such Act to 
     other provisions of law, and any amendments to such 
     provisions, including the provisions ensuring affordable 
     health coverage for those with preexisting conditions.
       The title directs the Office of General Counsel of the 
     House of Representatives to represent the House in any such 
     litigation and authorizes the Office of General Counsel to 
     employ the services of outside counsel, including pro bono 
     counsel, or other outside experts.
       The title also requires the chair of the Committee on House 
     Administration to print in the Congressional Record the 
     aggregate amounts expended on outside counsel and other 
     experts within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
       This title is included to protect the institutional 
     interests of the House of Representatives in litigation 
     involving the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, 
     given that the Department of Justice has not only refused to 
     defend provisions of the law, but has affirmatively argued 
     that certain provisions are unconstitutional.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
New Jersey (Mr. Gottheimer), someone we worked with very closely on 
this rules package.


Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of our new rules package that 
will help get more broadly based bipartisan legislation to the floor 
for debate and a vote.
  Both in New Jersey and in Washington, D.C., people are frustrated 
that Congress can't get things done. Whether it is completing the 
critical Gateway project back home in between New York and New Jersey, 
getting healthcare premiums down, cutting red tape, or lowering our 
taxes, commonsense ideas with broad bipartisan support often never make 
it to the House floor because a handful of splinter obstructionists use 
old-school tricks to block commonsense ideas.
  After years of hearing these complaints in diners and town halls at 
home, a group I co-chair called the Problem Solvers Caucus, comprised 
of half Democratic and half Republican Members, 7 months ago called for 
a reform package to break the gridlock.
  Especially in this era of a divided Congress, where we have a 
Democratic House and a Republican Senate and White House, to get things 
done, Congress will have to work together to deliver legislation with 
broad support. Whether that is fixing our infrastructure or getting 
healthcare costs down, we are going to have to work together.
  Today, we will take the first step with both Republicans and 
Democrats voting on the rules package that includes many of the Problem 
Solvers' break the gridlock ideas, including the new Consensus Calendar 
and modernizing the motion to vacate and discharge petition.
  The changes that we are making will also allow a full 3 days for us 
to actually read legislation before we vote on it, letting us have a 
full understanding of what we are voting on--just commonsense. We are 
also requiring hearings and markups on major legislation, again, all 
things that just seem like common sense that we should be doing.
  I am deeply proud of this Chamber, and I thank Speaker Pelosi and 
Chairman McGovern and their excellent teams for their hard work in 
reforming the House. I thank my co-chair of the Problem Solvers Caucus, 
Congressman  Tom Reed from New York, and the whole Problem Solvers 
Caucus for this big step in their work for a more cooperative, 
productive, and bipartisan House of Representatives.
                              {time}  1830


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Puerto Rico (Miss Gonzalez-Colon).
  Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman 
McGovern for his leadership and this opportunity.
  As the only Member representing Puerto Rico in this Congress, I 
represent 3.2 million American citizens living on the island, and there 
are 5.4 million Puerto Ricans living on the mainland.
  Today, while we are discussing this resolution that will give 
Delegates and the Resident Commissioner the opportunity to vote in the 
Committee of the Whole, one issue that triggers me being here is that 
our vote would only count if the cast votes are not deciding votes. So 
we can vote in the Committee of the Whole, as the rule is providing, 
but if the casting votes are in contest, then you need to do a second 
round of votes without the territories.
  That is like a symbolic vote, and that is the reason the people of 
Puerto Rico want to become a State. That is the only way we can achieve 
four Members of Congress representing Puerto Rico in the House, two 
Members on the Senate side, not just using a symbolic vote in this 
House.
  As a matter of an example, a few minutes ago our names, the 
territories'
Delegates names were on the board, but we can't vote on regular bills. 
We can't vote on anything else. So it will look like we are not present 
during the debates. It will look like we are not present on the floor 
of the House whenever there is a real discussion on the floor, but our 
names are still there. We can't vote ``yes''; we can't vote ``no.''
  Mr. Speaker, I think it is not a symbolic vote. This is a good step, 
but we should have the full right to vote.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a statement on the 
interpretation of clause 8 of Rule II.
   Statement by Chairman McGovern on Civil Enforcement of Subpoenas 
                    Pursuant to House Rule II(8)(b)
       I want to speak regarding House Rule II(8)(b). Pursuant to 
     this provision, the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group (BLAG) is 
     delegated the authority to speak for the full House of 
     Representatives with respect to all litigation matters. A 
     vote of the BLAG to authorize litigation and to articulate 
     the institutional position of the House in that litigation, 
     is the equivalent of a vote of the full House of 
     Representatives. For example, in the 115th Congress, the 
     BLAG, pursuant to Rule II(8)(b), authorized House Committees 
     to intervene in ongoing litigation. The BLAG has been 
     delegated this authority for all litigation matters, and I 
     want to be clear that this includes litigation related to the 
     civil enforcement of a Committee subpoena. If a Committee 
     determines that one or more of its duly issued subpoenas has 
     not been complied with and that civil enforcement is 
     necessary, the BLAG, pursuant to House Rule II(8)(b), may 
     authorize the House Office of General Counsel to initiate 
     civil litigation on behalf of this Committee to enforce the 
     Committee's subpoena(s) in federal district court.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a list of all 
Members and caucuses who offered ideas and proposals for H. Res. 6, and 
I thank these Members for their contributions.
 List of Members and Caucuses Who Submitted Ideas and Proposals to H. 
                                 Res. 6
       Mr. Allred of Texas, Mr. Bera of California, Mr. Beyer of 
     Virginia, Ms. Bordallo from Guam, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. 
     Carbajal of California, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Cicilline 
     of Rhode Island, Mr. Coffman of Colorado, Mr. Connolly of 
     Virginia, Mr. Cooper of Tennessee, Mr. Costa of California, 
     Mr. Cummings of Maryland, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Deutch 
     of Florida, Ms. Dingell of Michigan, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
     Mr. Faso of New York, Mr. Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
     Gallagher of Wisconsin.
       Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Gonzalez-Colon from Puerto Rico, 
     Mr. Gottheimer of New Jersey, Mr. Grijalva of Arizona, Mr. 
     Hastings of Florida, Mr. Himes of Connecticut, Mr. Hoyer of 
     Maryland, Ms. Johnson of Texas, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Katko 
     of New York, Mr. Khanna from California, Mr. Kilmer of 
     Washington, Mr. Lance of New Jersey, Mr. Langevin of Rhode 
     Island, Mr. Lipinski of Illinois, Ms. Lofgren of California, 
     Ms. Lowey of New York, Ms. Omar of Minnesota, Ms. Murphy of 
     Florida, Mr. Nadler of New York.
       Mr. Nolan of Minnesota, Ms. Norton from the District of 
     Columbia, Mr. O'Halleran of Arizona, Mr. Panetta of 
     California, Ms. Pelosi of California, Mr. Peters of 
     California, Ms. Plaskett from the U.S. Virgin Islands, Mr. 
     Polis of Colorado, Mr. Pocan of Wisconsin, Ms. Radewagen from 
     America Samoa, Mr. Raskin of Maryland, Mr. Reed of New York, 
     Ms. Rice of New York, Mr. Richmond of Louisiana, Ms. Rosen of 
     Nevada, Progressive Caucus, Congressional Black Caucus, 
     Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Democratic Women's Working 
     Group, New Democrat Coalition, Blue Dog Coalition, 
     Congressional Asian Pacific Coalition, Problem Solvers 
     Caucus.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the Rules 
Committee and I thank the team, all the opportunities that we had to 
engage in this rules package.
  It is a new day, Mr. Speaker, a new day because I am glad that we 
have opened some opportunity for our Delegates and Commissioners to be 
able to participate on behalf of their millions of constituents, which 
did not occur under Republican rule. That is a wonderful new step.
  But I do acknowledge the fact that we are $2 trillion in debt and 
that the deficit has increased under this administration, and here we 
are now asking for $5.2 billion for a border wall.
  I am glad that this rules package is transparent and fiscally 
responsible, but I am most excited about the responsibility for the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act because, unfortunately, my 
State, the State of Texas, is leading an ill-fated legislation 
litigation that would undermine the right of Americans to have good 
healthcare. It will undermine the protection for those with a 
preexisting condition. It will undermine the fact that Texas was a 
poster child for uninsured Americans.
  Twenty-five percent of our State was uninsured, and this legislation 
indicates that our Speaker can intervene on any legislation and/or 
litigation that interferes with or undermines protecting the American 
people's healthcare. That is what they voted for. That is why they sent 
us to the United States Congress. That is why we are here.
  And for the many people that suffer that I see in my district, again, 
the poster child for uninsured Americans, now we have, in this rules 
package, the ability of our Speaker to stand up for the American people 
and to fight for the healthcare that they so desire.
  So if there is anything in here that I can support--and there are 
many, many things of transparency--the fact that we now can stand up to 
protect the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is one for this 
Nation. It is a new day, and our people will survive because of that.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Burgess).


Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma, and I 
congratulate him on being the ranking member of the Rules Committee. I 
also congratulate the new chairman of the Rules Committee.
  Mr. Speaker, I do speak in opposition to the rule. This authorization 
for the Speaker of the House to intervene in any lawsuit, particularly 
the one in Texas, is not a good idea, not something that I think that 
we should be pursuing.
  The Affordable Care Act has multiple problems. We are forcing people 
to buy insurance they can't afford, don't understand, and can't use. 
They are functionally uninsured, and they are out a ton of money to do 
that.
  In addition, the work requirements that the Department of Agriculture 
is working on after the farm bill was passed, this is something that is 
important for the administration. We have more jobs than we have 
workers. People should be working, and it is time to get people back to 
work.
  Finally, the addition of the Gephardt rule but the removal of the 
requirement that the Senate concur with the House budget before the 
Gephardt rule goes into effect, this is a dangerous policy and one this 
House ought to reject.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time I have left.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has 1\3/4\ 
minutes remaining.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, may I make the same inquiry as to my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Oklahoma has 8 minutes 
remaining.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Estes).


Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H. Res. 
6.
  Among the many rule changes included, this bill opens the door for 
Democrats to raise taxes by removing the current requirement of a 
three-fifths majority of the House of Representatives to pass a tax 
increase.
  At a time when our Nation's debt is $22 trillion, increasing taxes 
and government spending will only succeed in further bankrupting our 
children and grandchildren. For generations, Americans have worked to 
leave the country better off for their kids and grandkids. Mortgaging 
our kids' future will not do that.
  Following implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our economy 
has experienced historic growth. Instead of building upon that 
progress, this bill would allow the Democrats to raise taxes with a 
simple majority vote, stopping our economy in its tracks.
  It is a shame that my colleagues have spent their first day in the 
majority seeking to change the rules to allow for tax and debt 
increases. Once this bill is passed, it is all but certain that the 
Democrats will then use the mechanisms to raise taxes on families in 
Kansas and across our Nation to pay for increased government spending.
  This is a dangerous precedent that should be widely opposed, and I 
urge my colleagues to vote against this bill.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I would just remind the gentleman, in
the last 2 years, the Republicans have exploded the debt by $2 
trillion.
  I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to begin by urging all Members to 
oppose this measure. While the rule package includes some provisions 
Republicans can certainly support, it, unfortunately, includes too many 
provisions that we cannot.
  The rule package today removes important fiscal responsibility 
measures from House rules, establishes a partisan climate committee, 
and grants the Speaker the power to intervene in a lawsuit over the 
legality of the ACA. Those are all things that my conference, quite 
frankly, is unanimously opposed to.
  I do want to address, just in passing, my friend's discussion about 
the deficit. I will remind him, when President Obama was in office, 
that deficit was doubled, actually increased at a faster rate, 
particularly when my friends were empowered in the first opening 2 
years, than it ever has in any peacetime in American history.
  The deficit is all too high. I agree with my friends very much on 
that. I am glad they are born-again deficit hawks. That means they are 
going to be serious about entitlement reform, because we all know what 
drives the deficit here, and that is simply the demographic reality of 
an aging population and an overextended bunch of entitlements.
  I actually have a bipartisan bill, which I would encourage my friends 
to look at, which doesn't dictate an outcome but actually sets up the 
same sort of process that Democrats and Republicans worked on together 
in 1983, the last time Social Security was at risk, came to a 
bipartisan compromise, developed something that restored the fiscal 
sanity. That is legislation my friend in the former Congress, Mr. 
Delaney, and I had for three Congresses. We could never get anybody 
interested in it on either side of the aisle.
  So if my friends want to engage in a virtuous debate about dealing 
with the deficit, I am all for it. I actually have a bipartisan remedy 
that I would invite them to look at, and I think it would yield us a 
very good result and start us down that road. But that is for another 
day. I want to end on a positive note.
  I again want to congratulate my friend from Massachusetts (Mr. 
McGovern) on his elevation to chairman of the Rules Committee. I know 
very much, from having worked with him for many years, that he will 
keep his word because he always has, that he will operate in a manner 
that is aboveboard and that is fair and respectful to all, and that he 
will seriously do what he is committed to do, and that is entertain 
suggestions from all quarters. I actually have no doubt that he will do 
that, and I genuinely look forward to having the opportunity to work 
with him on the committee that he chairs during the next 2 years.
  He is going to do, certainly, not only a good job for the people of 
his conference, but I believe a good job for the people of this 
institution and for the American people as well.
  Mr. Speaker, despite my affections, I do urge a ``no'' vote on the 
previous question and ``no'' on the underlying measure.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from Oklahoma for his kind 
words, and I hope he knows how much I respect him and how much I admire 
him.
  Mr. Speaker, there are so many people who played a role in crafting 
these rules, from our historymaking Speaker, who gave us the 
opportunity to solicit Member feedback, and the many colleagues who 
spoke with me about their suggestions, to the office of the 
Parliamentarian and the Office of Legislative Counsel, to our 
incredible Rules staff. All made important contributions to this 
package. I want to thank everyone for their involvement. Their work and 
dedication made these historic rules possible.
  We have a unique moment here to implement real reforms, to say no to 
business as usual and create a better legislative process and make 
progress on the majority's agenda, while making this House look like 
the real world. Let's seize this opportunity.
  I urge all my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this package. Let's 
restore integrity to this place and get to work on behalf of the people 
we represent.
  And that is not just the view of the majority. I know that many in 
the minority share that view. We can do better. I look forward to 
working with the gentleman from Oklahoma and others on the Republican 
side of the aisle as we move forward in this new session.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge everybody to vote ``yes'' on this great rules 
package, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous 
question is ordered on the portion of the divided question comprising 
title I.
  The question is on that portion of that divided question.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 5, I 
call up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 1) making further continuing 
appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 
2019, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the joint 
resolution is considered read.
  The text of the joint resolution is as follows:
                              H.J. Res. 1
       Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
     United States of America in Congress assembled,
       Section 1. The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 
     (division C of Public Law 115-245) is further amended--
       (1) in section 105--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by inserting ``except as provided in paragraph (4),'' 
     before ``December''; and
       (ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
     or''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) with respect to appropriations and funds made 
     available, and other authorities granted, pursuant to section 
     101(5) of this joint resolution for the Department of 
     Homeland Security, February 8, 2019.''; and
       (2) in section 110, by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) With respect to mandatory payments whose budget 
     authority was provided in the Department of Homeland Security 
     Appropriations Act, 2018 (division F of Public Law 115-141), 
     subsections (a) and (b) shall be applied by substituting 
     `section 105(4)' for `section 105(3)' each place it 
     appears.''.
       Sec. 2. (a) Employees furloughed as a result of a lapse in 
     appropriations beginning on or about December 22, 2018, and 
     ending on the date of the enactment of this joint resolution 
     shall be compensated at their standard rate of compensation, 
     for the period of such lapse in appropriations, as soon as 
     practicable after such lapse in appropriations ends.
       (b) For purposes of this section, ``employee'' means any 
     Federal employee whose salary and expenses are provided by 
     the amendment made by section 1(1)(C).
       (c) All obligations incurred in anticipation of the 
     appropriations made and authority granted by this joint 
     resolution for the purposes of maintaining the essential 
     level of activity to protect life and property and bringing 
     about orderly termination of Government functions, and for 
     purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby ratified 
     and approved if otherwise in accord with the provisions of 
     this joint resolution.
       Sec. 3. (a) If a State (or another Federal grantee) used 
     State funds (or the grantee's non-Federal funds) to continue 
     carrying out a Federal program or furloughed State employees 
     (or the grantee's employees) whose compensation is advanced 
     or reimbursed in whole or in part by the Federal Government--
       (1) such furloughed employees shall be compensated at their 
     standard rate of compensation for such period;
       (2) the State (or such other grantee) shall be reimbursed 
     for expenses that would have been paid by the Federal 
     Government during such period had appropriations been 
     available, including the cost of compensating such furloughed 
     employees, together with interest thereon calculated under 
     section 6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
       (3) the State (or such other grantee) may use funds 
     available to the State (or the grantee) under such Federal 
     program to reimburse such State (or the grantee), together 
     with interest thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of 
     title 31, United States Code.
       (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``State'' and 
     the term ``grantee'', including United States territories and 
     possessions, shall have the meaning given such terms under 
     the applicable Federal program under subsection (a). In 
     addition, ``to continue carrying out a Federal program'' 
     means the continued performance by a State or other Federal 
     grantee, during the period of a lapse in appropriations, of a 
     Federal program that the State or such other grantee had been 
     carrying out prior to the period of the lapse in 
     appropriations.
       (c) The authority under this section applies with respect 
     to the period of a lapse in appropriations beginning on or 
     about December 22, 2018, and ending on the date of enactment 
     of this joint resolution with respect to the Department of 
     Homeland Security which, but for such lapse in 
     appropriations, would have paid, or made reimbursement 
     relating to, any of the expenses referred to in this section 
     with respect to the program involved. Payments and 
     reimbursements under this authority shall be made only to the 
     extent and in amounts provided in advance in appropriations 
     Acts.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Roybal-Allard) and the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. Granger) each will control 15 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from California.
                             General Leave
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the measure under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Madam Speaker, today is the beginning of the 116th Congress. The 
first and most basic responsibility this House has is to reopen our 
government to serve the needs of the American people. The greatest 
obstacle in keeping the government open has been disagreements on how 
to spend Homeland Security dollars. That is why, in the best interests 
of the country, it makes sense to reopen the government by passing the 
remaining six bipartisan funding bills for fiscal year 2019 and to 
reopen the Department of Homeland Security through a short-term 
continuing resolution.
  The resolution before us would do just that. It would reopen the 
Department of Homeland Security through February 8 of this year. This 
would give us time to negotiate a DHS funding bill for the rest of the 
fiscal year based on the most current needs assessment, such as meeting 
the housing needs of children in border custody.
  The ability to reach a full-year funding bill for the Department of 
Homeland Security will not be possible, however, if the President is 
unwilling to change his focus from a campaign promise to one that 
realistically addresses the most urgent and immediate national security 
vulnerabilities our homeland faces today.
  This means any serious discussion of Homeland Security investments 
must include funding for hiring more law enforcement agents to focus on 
opioid, gang, trade, and child exploitation investigations; funding for 
the hiring of additional customs officers to intercept illicit drugs 
and other contraband, almost all of which comes into our country 
through the ports of entry.
  It must also include investing more in first responder grants to 
better prepare States and localities to prevent and respond to 
terrorism and disasters of every kind.
  It must contain funding for the recapitalization of the Coast Guard's 
air and sea fleets, including funding for the procurement of our first 
heavy icebreaker since the 1970s, because, as the Arctic ice recedes, 
Russia, China, and other countries are winning the race to lay claim to 
the vast resources of that region.
  While border security is important, it is only one of many pieces of 
the Homeland Security mission, which includes criminal investigations, 
first responder preparedness, disaster response, the protection of our 
cyber networks, and the protection of our critical infrastructure, 
coastal waters, and our air and surface transportation systems. These 
must also be funding priorities if we are to protect our homeland. Yet 
every dollar set aside for a border wall is a dollar lost to our 
ability to meet these and our other most pressing and critical Homeland 
Security needs.
  I urge my House colleagues to support this resolution, and I urge the 
Senate to do the same, so we can quickly get to work on negotiating a 
full-year funding bill in support of the critical work of the 
Department of Homeland Security.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. GRANGER. Madam


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Fleischmann).


Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Madam Speaker, I respectfully and strongly rise 
today in strong opposition to the proposal from my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle to reopen the government without increased 
funding for border security.
  Let me be clear: This attempt to reopen our government without 
increased border security funding is dangerous, flawed, and truly puts 
party before country.
  We can all agree that our country is in crisis, as our porous 
borders, our porous southern border, allow dangerous criminals, deadly 
drugs, and human trafficking to pour into our country almost unchecked.
  So why do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to 
refuse to take real action and do something about it?
  Just the other day, there was another tragedy where the police 
reported an individual who had come here illegally took the life of a 
police officer. That police officer left his family as a patriotic 
American dedicated to enforcing the rule of law and, as a result, lost 
his life.
  How many more times does this have to happen before my colleagues on 
the other side of this aisle support increased border security?
  In short, we need the wall.
  Madam Speaker, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle say that 
walls don't work. Let me assure you, they do. According to the 
Department of Homeland Security, there have been significant decreases 
along our southern border where walls and fencing have been built. Look 
at Yuma, Arizona, where illegal traffic has dropped 95 percent, 95 
percent over 9 years, or
El Paso, Texas, where illegal traffic has dropped 72 percent in 1 year 
alone and over 95 percent in 22 years.
  Madam Speaker, House Republicans took a stand on December 5 to secure 
our Nation by passing a bill that included $5.7 billion in border 
security. That was the President's full request for the wall. This bill 
is central to fulfilling our promise as elected officials to protect 
the American people, ensure the safety of our Nation, and put American 
interests first. To reopen the government without necessary border 
security funding and wall funding is a sorely missed opportunity.
  Madam Speaker, let's get back to work negotiating and take up 
legislation that secures our southern border, funds the wall, and 
strengthens our Nation.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Cuellar), a longtime member of the Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Homeland Security.


Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, look, everybody talks about the border 
and how violent it is. But if you look at the latest FBI statistics, 
whether it is rape, murder, or assault, the border crime rate is lower 
than the national crime rate. I can pick any city that you want, and 
you will see that none of the most dangerous cities in the country are 
on the border, none of them. None of them are.
  In fact, if you look at my hometown of Laredo, the murder rate on the 
border, and you compare it to Washington, D.C., where we are, it is 
about three or four times higher here in Washington, D.C. If people are 
worried about the crime, start off with Washington, D.C., if that is 
what y'all want to do.
  The wall is a 14th century solution to a 21st century issue that we 
have. We want to see strong border security. I live on the border. I 
don't just go visit for a second or 2 hours and say that I know the 
border better. I know what works down there, and the wall is a 14th 
century solution.
  If you want to spend billions of dollars on a wall, I will spend $100 
on a ladder that will take care of that wall. This is why we have to 
make sure that we spend money on Border Patrol. We are 2,000 Border 
Patrol agents short. In fact, if we spend money on retention so we can 
keep them, we don't have to lose them. We are losing Border Patrol 
agents right now.
  But we can't spend it the wrong way. The administration just spent 
$14.8 million to hire two Border Patrol agents. Now, maybe one of them 
is Captain America, I don't know. But are we going to spend $15 million 
to hire two Border Patrol agents?
  Spend that money on bonuses. Give them the equipment that we have. 
Protect private property rights on the border. We can go ahead and do 
that.
  If you want to stop drugs, look at the latest DEA report. You will 
see that the latest DEA report tells you that drugs come in through 
ports of entry. You can build the most beautiful wall, and they are 
going to come in through a port of entry. Put money on the ports of 
entry. Put money on CBP facilities and the facilities that we need.
  Finally, the last thing I want to say is this: There is technology 
that works for the military, and if it works for the military, we can 
surely use it on the border. Personnel, technology, we have to look at 
the right way of securing the border.
  I want to work with you. We want to work with you, but the wall is a 
14th century solution. We can do better than that.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Rice).
  Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, it is true that about 30 
percent of the government is shut down. We are in a standoff here. Why 
is that? What is the purpose of this?
  It is because of two scourges on our country that have been brought 
on by our poor southern border, and that is illegal immigration and 
opioid deaths. My constituents have had enough.
  House Republicans passed a spending bill just a few weeks ago that 
included $5.7 billion that would go a long way toward securing our 
southern border and easing these disasters.
  Now the Democrats take charge, and the first thing they do is 
introduce a bill that eliminates that spending for border security.
  With respect to illegal immigration, hundreds of thousands of illegal 
aliens cross our southern border every year. This limitless supply of 
cheap labor unfairly competes for jobs and holds down wages for 
hardworking, law-abiding Americans. The most affected are the most 
vulnerable at the bottom of the income ladder.
  The American middle class is smaller and today makes the same money 
as it did in 1990. That is right. Until Donald Trump came along, the 
American middle class hadn't had a raise in 25 years. Cheap labor from 
illegal aliens breaking our laws every year to cheat American workers 
is one of the primary causes.
  Madam Speaker, my friends on the other side of the aisle love to 
complain about income inequality. Well, here is a chance to stop 
complaining and actually do something about income inequality.
  If you truly want to give the middle class a raise, let's stop the 
endless flow of illegal labor that cheats our middle class. Let's 
restore the $5.7 billion to secure our southern border and stop the 
flow of cheap illegal labor and watch wages rise.
  With respect to opioids, the scourge of opioid death is not new, but 
it is exploding in America as gangs and drug cartels become more adept 
at exploiting our porous southern border for fantastic profits. But 
these criminal profits come at great cost for honest, hardworking 
people, both in Central and South America and here in the United 
States.
  In 2017, 70,000 people died from opioid overdoses. That is up 45 
percent in 1 year. One hundred thirty-two of these Americans killed by 
drugs were in my district, and they are in your districts, too.
  You want to argue about who caused the shutdown? I don't care about 
who caused the shutdown. What I care about are 70,000 Americans killed 
by opioids, most of which come across our southern border. Law 
enforcement tells me 85 percent of those drugs killing my constituents 
and yours come across our southern border.
                              {time}  2045
  That 70,000 Americans killed by drug overdoses is more than traffic 
deaths, 37,000, and homicides, 17,000, combined; more than traffic 
deaths and homicides combined. And most of these drugs killing your 
constituents are coming across our southern border.
  Mr. Speaker, the Democrats say they are for border security, but they 
take no action. Empty words.
  They stripped the funding from the spending bill. They want to argue 
about who is to blame for the shutdown. Go home and tell that to a 
family that lost a loved one from opioids because you refused to take 
action to secure our southern border. Empty words.
  Funny, Mr. Schumer voted in favor of a border wall in 2006. Why is he 
against it now? Because Mr. Trump wants it? Empty words.
  It is time to stop the finger pointing and do something to truly help 
our constituents. Let's help the middle class by ending unfair 
competition from illegal aliens.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman.
  Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, let's reduce opioid deaths 
by ending the flow of deadly drugs from Mexico. Let's restore the $5.7 
billion that Homeland Security says they need to finally secure our 
southern border.
  Madam Speaker, the Democrats are terribly worried about who gets 
blamed for the shutdown. Frankly, I don't care who gets blamed.
  This is a fight to keep drugs off our streets and out of the hands of 
our children. It is a fight to keep our communities safe. It is a fight 
for higher wages for hardworking Americans. It is a fight worth having.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Ruppersberger), another longtime member of 
the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.


Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 1, 
which makes continuing appropriations for the Department of Homeland 
Security.
  As a matter of principle, I don't like continuing resolutions. Stop-
gap bills provide funding at current levels only; they prevent new 
spending where needed and prolong programs that have been discontinued; 
and last, Band-Aid budgets are bad for everyone, the American taxpayers 
and especially those on the front lines tasked with protecting the 
homeland.
  But today, the 13th day of this senseless government shutdown, the 
administration has tied our hands in demanding more than $5 billion for 
the President's campaign pledge, a border wall that really does not 
work.
  I am a member of the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee. 
When we met with the previous head of the border patrol, Ronald 
Vitiello, we asked: How much time does a physical wall buy you?
  His answer was: `` . . . a few minutes to a few seconds.''
  What we need is more manpower. Last year there were more than 800 
vacancies for border patrol officers at checkpoints in Laredo, Tucson, 
and San Diego alone. They are working triple overtime there.
  So our tax dollars can be better spent investing in more Customs and 
Border Patrol officers, more immigration judges, and by leveraging the 
fruits of modern technology, such as new communication towers, state-
of-the-art cameras, drones, all-terrain vehicles, and fencing where 
appropriate.
  Brick and mortar walls are a 4th century solution to a 21st century 
problem.
  We also need President Trump to stop leading by fear and falsehoods.
  As it relates to his border wall issue, the real problem is 
undocumented immigrants overstaying their visas, which constitutes well 
over half of those here illegally. And those are facts.
  Most of the drugs entering our country are coming through official 
land, air, and seaports of entry. I represent one of those ports: the 
Port of Baltimore.
  In electing 60 new Democrats to Congress, the American people have 
rejected this willy-nilly style of governance and are demanding a 
return to commonsense governing.
  No, we don't want open borders. Yes, we can do better when it comes 
to border security, but we must do it strategically.
  This continuing resolution gives us 30 days to debate funding levels 
for border security, including physical enhancements. It is identical 
to legislation already passed by our colleagues in the Senate just a 
few weeks ago.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.J. Res. 1.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, Democrats made a pledge to the 
American people, and we are here at 8:50 in the evening making good on 
our pledge to the American people to open the government, to open the 
government by funding certain appropriations up until September 30, and 
by opening the government by extending Homeland Security funding until 
February 8 to make sure that the TSOs, the border patrol, the CBPs are 
all being paid.
  How many of you go through the airports and go through security? Do 
you realize that those TSOs are not being paid?
  My commitment to them as I traveled here to Washington is: You need 
to be paid; not because you are not great public servants, but because 
it is a shame.
  So I come today to say, do what is right, not for the party, but for 
the American people.
  The President indicated: I will build a great, great wall on our 
southern border and Mexico will pay for it.
  Where is the Mexico funding? Today I introduced a bill: no funding 
for the wall; Mexico will pay for it.
  So it is extremely important to recognize our duty, and our duty is 
to fund this government, but I also want to give a constitutional 
lesson, if I might.
  Article I is the Congress. Article II is the executive. We work 
together. We don't have dictates from the executive to tell Congress 
what is best to do for the American people.
  Pay our Federal workers so that jobs can get done, so that there is 
not rubbish and trash and disaster on the Mall that is so beautiful.
  And what is this breaking news? Again, the misuse of the military. 
The Trump administration wants to send more troops to the border, not 
for protecting the border with Mexico, but to add 160 miles of wire.
  I just came from the border on Saturday. I wanted to say what I know. 
I go to the border all the time through the years that I have been on 
Homeland Security and I talk to the border patrol agents, and they 
don't want a concrete wall, but I will tell you what they need----
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to 
the gentlewoman from Texas.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, they don't want a four-legged table 
with Pepto Bismol on the table and one doctor. They don't want a room 
of individuals who have a sign that says, ``Flu room.'' They don't want 
the innocent children and families coming across, who are now condemned 
that they are coming across misrepresenting, and they are fleeing 
bloodshed and persecution. And the dominant numbers who are coming 
across the border are women and children and families.
  We are a big enough Nation to have a resolution through real border 
security, through technology, through personnel, through individuals at 
the ports of entry, CBP.
  We know how to do this, and all we need to do is sit down and do it. 
That is why we need the bills that are on the floor, Madam Speaker. 
Open the government now and vote for these bills.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on 
this bill. I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I urge my House colleagues to 
support this resolution and the critical work of the Department of 
Homeland Security. I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous question is ordered on 
the joint resolution.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the joint 
resolution.
  The joint resolution was ordered to be engrossed and read a third 
time, and was read the third time.
                           Motion to Recommit


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentlewoman opposed to the joint 
resolution?


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I am, in its current form.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Ms. Granger moves to recommit the joint resolution H.J. 
     Res. 1 to the Committee on Appropriations.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from Texas is recognized for 
5 minutes.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, the bills that House Democrats have 
chosen to consider today are not in keeping with the months of good-
faith negotiations to resolve the differences between the House, the 
Senate, and the White House.
  More importantly, they fail to truly address the crisis on our 
southern border and the very real threat it poses to the safety and 
security of our homeland.
  We owe it to the American people to work together to address this 
problem and secure our border. It is time to reopen the government and 
fund border security.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the motion to 
recommit, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the motion 
to recommit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from California is 
recognized for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, this shutdown has gone on long 
enough. This motion to recommit would only further prolong the 
shutdown.
  We need to pass H.J. Res. 1 immediately to ensure that all components
of our Department of Homeland Security are open and functional to 
protect the American people.
  Madam Speaker, for those reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose the 
motion to recommit, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that during the
116th Congress, the Speaker, majority leader, and minority leader be 
authorized to accept resignations and to make appointments authorized 
by law or by the House.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Maryland?
  There was no objection.
                          



Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that during the 
first session of the 116th Congress:
  (1) on legislative days of Monday or Tuesday when the House convenes 
pursuant to House Resolution 10, the House shall convene 2 hours 
earlier than the time otherwise established by the resolution for the 
purpose of conducting morning-hour debate;
  (2) on legislative days of Wednesday or Thursday when the House 
convenes pursuant to House Resolution 10, the House shall convene 2 
hours earlier than the time otherwise established by the resolution for 
the purpose of conducting morning-hour debate;
  (3) when the House convenes pursuant to an order other than House 
Resolution 10, the House shall convene for the purpose of conducting 
morning-hour debate only as prescribed by such order;
  (4) the time for morning-hour debate shall be allocated equally 
between the parties and may not continue beyond 10 minutes before the 
hour appointed for the resumption of the session of the House; and
  (5) the form of proceeding for morning-hour debate shall be as 
follows:
  (a) the prayer by the Chaplain, the approval of the Journal and the 
Pledge of Allegiance to the flag shall be postponed until resumption of 
the session of the House;
  (b) initial and subsequent recognitions for debate shall alternate 
between the parties;
  (c) recognition shall be conferred by the Speaker only pursuant to 
lists submitted by the majority leader and by the minority leader;
  (d) no Member may address the House for longer than 5 minutes, except 
the majority leader, the minority leader, or the minority whip;
  (e) no legislative business shall be in order except the filing of 
privileged reports; and
  (f) following morning-hour debate, the Chair shall declare a recess 
pursuant to clause 12(a) of rule I until the time appointed for the 
resumption of the session of the House; and
  (6) the Speaker may dispense with morning-hour debate upon receipt of 
a notification described in clause 12(c) of rule I, or upon a change in 
reconvening pursuant to clause 12(e) of rule I, and notify Members 
accordingly.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Maryland?
  There was no objection.
                        


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, your committee appointed on the part of the 
House to join a like committee on the part of the Senate to notify the 
President of the United States that a quorum of each House has been 
assembled and is ready to receive any communication that he may be 
pleased to make has performed that duty.
                        


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that during the 
116th Congress, all Members be permitted to extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material within the permitted limit in that section 
of the Record entitled ``Extensions of Remarks.''
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Maryland?
  There was no objection.
                        


Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Clerk, let me begin by welcoming all of the 
Members and our families to the people's House in connection with the 
start of the 116th Congress.
  The Scripture says:
       Weeping may endure during the long night, but joy will come 
     in the morning.
  Madam Clerk, it is with great joy that I rise today, as directed by 
the House Democratic Caucus, to place the name of Nancy Pelosi in 
nomination to be the next Speaker of the United States House of 
Representatives.
  Without question, Nancy Pelosi has a track record of legislative 
success that is unparalleled in modern American history.
  Nancy Pelosi captained the ship that defeated the effort to privatize 
Social Security; rescued our economy in the midst of the Great 
Recession; saved the American automobile industry; provided affordable 
healthcare to more
than 20 million Americans; created the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau; enacted a minimum wage increase for the first time in 10 years; 
struck a blow against mass incarceration with passage of the Fair 
Sentencing Act; and provided relief to tens of millions of Americans 
who are credit card holders that were being defrauded. But Nancy Pelosi 
is just getting started.
  In the 116th Congress, she will continue to fight hard for the 
people. Nancy Pelosi will fight to lower healthcare costs; strengthen 
the Affordable Care Act; protect people with preexisting conditions; 
increase pay for everyday Americans; enact a real infrastructure plan; 
clean up construction; defend the Dreamers; fix the Voting Rights Act; 
and end the era of voter suppression once and for all.
                              {time}  1245
  She will fight for a country that provides for the poor, works for 
working families, makes sense for the middle class, stands up for 
senior citizens, innovates in the inner cities, and strengthens 
suburban communities.
  Nancy Pelosi is a woman of faith; a loving wife; a mother of five; a 
grandmother of nine; a sophisticated strategist; a legendary 
legislator; a voice for the voiceless; a defender of the 
disenfranchised; a powerful, profound, prophetic, principled public 
servant, and that is why we stand squarely behind her today.
  Let me be clear: House Democrats are down with NDP, Nancy D'Alesandro 
Pelosi, the once and future Speaker of the United States House of 
Representatives. I proudly place her name in nomination.
  May God bless her. May God bless the United States of America.
  The CLERK. The Clerk recognizes the gentlewoman from Wyoming (Ms. 
Cheney).
  Ms. CHENEY. Ma


Ms. PELOSI. Thank you very much, Leader McCarthy. I look forward to 
working with you in a bipartisan way for the good of our country, 
respecting our constituents--who you are, every one of you. I respect 
you and the constituents who sent each and every one of us here. They 
expect and deserve for us to try to find our common ground, and we must 
try to do that: stand our ground where we can't, but always extend the 
hand of friendship.
  Thank you, Kevin McCarthy, for your leadership. I look forward to 
working with you. Congratulations on being a leader of the Congress.
  And congratulations to each and every one of you. New Members of 
Congress, newly re-elected Members of Congress, thank you for your 
courage to run for office and to serve in this distinguished body.
  Every 2 years, we gather in this Chamber for a sacred ritual under 
the dome of this temple of democracy, the Capitol of the United States. 
We renew the great American experiment.
  I am particularly proud to be woman Speaker of the House of this 
Congress, which marks the 100th year of women having the right to vote, 
and that we all have the ability and the privilege to serve, with over 
100 women Members of Congress, the largest number in history.
                              {time}  1430
  As Leader McCarthy said, each of us comes to this Chamber 
strengthened by the trust of our constituents and the love of our 
families. Let us congratulate and welcome all of the families who are 
here today. Thank you to our families.
  Let me take the privilege of thanking my dear husband, Paul, and our 
five children, Nancy Corinne, Christine, Jacqueline, Paul, and 
Alexandra, and our nine grandchildren, Madeleine and Alexander, Liam, 
Sean and Ryan, Thomas and Paul, Bella, and Octavio. We are so proud of 
all of our grandchildren, and we are proud of everyone's grandchildren 
and children who are here today. We will see more of them.
  I am also proud of my D'Alesandro family that is here from Baltimore 
for us too. And in that spirit, my mother and father and my brother, 
Tommy, who was also mayor of Baltimore, taught us, through their 
example, that public service is a noble calling, that we should serve 
with our hearts full of love, and that America's heart is full of love.
  Singing that to us last night, my comrade, an Italian American, with 
all that pride, I want to acknowledge Tony Bennett, who is here with us 
today as well. Thank you, Tony. He helped free the concentration camps 
during the time of World War II. He marched with Martin Luther King. He 
is a true American patriot. Thank you, Tony.
  Again, I want to thank my constituents from San Francisco who have 
entrusted me to represent them in Congress in the spirit of St. 
Francis, the patron saint of San Francisco, and his song of St. Francis 
is our anthem: Make me a channel of Thy peace. We heard that in church 
this morning, but it is our mission.
  Let me thank our men and women in uniform, our veterans, and our 
military families and caregivers whose service reminds us of our 
mission to make the future worthy of their sacrifice. To our men and 
women in uniform.
  We enter this new Congress with a sense of great hope and confidence 
for the future and deep humility and prayerfulness in the face of 
challenges ahead.
  Our Nation is in a historic moment. Two months ago the American 
people spoke and demanded a new dawn. They called upon the beauty of 
our Constitution, that our system of checks and balances that protects 
our democracy, remembering that the legislative branch is Article I, 
the first branch of government, coequal to the Presidency and to the 
judiciary. They want a Congress that delivers results for the people, 
opening up opportunity, and lifting up their lives.
  We are hearing the voice of the future there. How beautiful.
  When our new Members take the oath, our Congress will be refreshed 
and our democracy will be strengthened by their optimism, idealism, and 
patriotism of this transformative freshman class. Congratulations to 
all of you in the freshman class. Working together, we will redeem the 
promise of the American Dream for every family, advancing progress for 
every community.
  We must be pioneers of the future. This Congress must accelerate a 
future that advances America's preeminence in the world and opens up 
opportunities for all, building an economy that gives all Americans the 
tools they need to succeed in the 21st century, public education, 
workforce development, good-paying jobs, and secure pensions.
  We have heard from too many families who wonder, in this time of 
innovation and globalization, if they have a place in the economy of 
the future. We must remove all doubt that they do and say to them 
individually, we will have an economy that works for you.
  Let us declare that we will call upon bold thinking to address the 
disparity of income in America, which is at the root of the crisis of 
confidence felt by so many Americans. As Justice Brandeis said, we may 
have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a 
few, but we cannot have both. We must end that injustice and restore 
the public's faith in a better future for themselves and their 
children.
  We must be champions of the middle class and all those who aspire to 
it because the middle class is the backbone of our democracy; it has 
been since the birth of our democracy.
  Aristotle said, it is manifest that the best political community is 
formed by citizens of the middle class, in which the middle class is 
large and stronger than any of the other classes. We must fight for the 
middle class that is fair and fiscally sound, protecting Medicare, 
Medicaid, and Social Security.
  We must also face the existential threat of our time, the climate 
crisis, a crisis manifested in natural disasters of epic proportion. 
The American people understand the urgency. The people are ahead of the 
Congress. The Congress must join them, and that is why we have created 
a Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.
  The entire Congress must work to put an end to the inaction and 
denial of science that threaten the planet and the future. This is a 
decision, a public health decision about clean air, clean water for our 
children's health. It is a decision for America's global preeminence in 
green technologies. It is a decision, a security decision to keep us 
all safe, and a moral decision to be good stewards of God's creation.
  We have no illusions that our work will be easy, and that all of us 
in this Chamber will always agree. But let each of us pledge that, when 
we disagree, we respect each other and we respect the truth.
  We will debate and advance good ideas, no matter where they come 
from. And in that spirit, Democrats will be offering the Senate 
Republican appropriations legislation to reopen government later today. 
We will do so to meet the needs of the American people, to protect our 
borders, and to respect our workers.
  I pledge that this Congress will be transparent, bipartisan, and 
unifying; that we will seek to reach across the aisle in this Chamber 
and across divisions across our Nation.
  In the past 2 years, the American people have spoken. Tens of 
thousands of public events were held. Hundreds of thousands of people 
turned out. Millions of calls were made. Countless families, even sick 
little children, our little lobbyists, our little lobbyists bravely 
came forward to tell their stories, and they made a big difference.
  Now, the floor of this House must be America's town hall, where 
people will see our debates and where their voices will be heard and 
affect our decisions. Transparency will be the order of the day.
  As Mr. Jeffries, our distinguished chairman said, we will follow our 
mandate for the people. I thank him for his kind nomination, and accept 
those kind remarks on behalf of the entire House Democratic Caucus 
which made all of those victories possible, some of them in a bold 
partisan way.
  Empower our mandate for the people, to lower healthcare costs and 
prescription drug prices and protect people with pre-existing medical 
conditions; to increase paychecks by rebuilding America with green and 
modern infrastructure from sea to shining sea--we look forward to 
working with the President on that--to pass H.R. 1, to restore 
integrity to government so that people can have confidence in a 
government that works for the people, not the special interests; H.R. 
1.
  This House will take overdue legislation that has bipartisan support, 
bipartisan support in the Congress and across the country. We will make 
our communities safer and keep our sacred promise to the victims and 
survivors and families of gun violence by passing commonsense, 
bipartisan background check legislation.
  We will make America fairer by passing the Equality Act to end 
discrimination against LGBTQ communities; and we will make America more 
American by protecting our patriotic, courageous Dreamers.
  All three of those legislative initiatives have bipartisan support in 
this body. And when we are talking about the Dreamers, let us remember 
what President Reagan said in his last speech as President of the 
United States. I urge you all to read it. It is a beautiful speech.
  He said, if we ever close the door to new Americans, our leadership 
role in the world will soon be lost. Ronald Reagan.
  Our common cause is to find and forge a way forward for our country. 
Let us stand for the people to promote liberty and justice for all as 
we pledge every day; and always, always, keep our Nation safe from 
threats, old and new, from terrorism and cyber warfare, overseas and 
here at home. To protect and defend, that is the oath we all take to 
serve in this body. That is the oath we take, to protect and defend.
  I close by remembering a cherished former Member of this body who 
rose to become a beloved President of the United States and who, last 
month, returned to the Capitol once more, and he came this time to lie 
in state. That week we honored President George Herbert Walker Bush 
with eulogies, tributes and tears.
  Today, I single out one of his great achievements, working with both 
Democrats and Republicans to write the Americans With Disabilities Act 
into the laws of our land. I thank Steny Hoyer for being such a big, 
important part of that.
  In 2010, we marked the 20th anniversary of the act by making it 
possible for our colleagues with disabilities to preside over the House 
by changing the mechanics of this podium. In that spirit of equality 
and justice, let me announce that this afternoon, the first Speaker pro 
tempore I will yield to of the 116th Congress will be Congressman Jim 
Langevin of Rhode Island.
                              {time}  1445
  As we take the oath of office today, we accept responsibility as 
daunting and demanding as any the previous generations of leadership 
have faced.
  Guided by the vision and values of our Founders, the sacrifice of our 
men and women in uniform, and the aspirations that we have for our 
children, let us meet that responsibility with wisdom, with courage, 
and with grace.
  Together, we will let it be known that this House will truly be the 
people's House.
  Let us pray that God may bless our work and crown our good with 
brotherhood and sisterhood from sea to shining sea.
  God bless you all, and God bless the United States of America.
  I am now ready to take the oath of office.
  I ask the dean of the House of Representatives, the Honorable Don 
Young, to administer the oath of office. But before we do, Mr. Dean, 
and I thank you for your great leadership in the Congress over the 
decades, I would like to call my grandchildren up to be here when I 
take the oath, and any other children who want to join them.
  Mr. Young then administered the oath of office to Ms. Pelosi of 
California, as follows:
       Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the 
     Constitution of the United States against all enemies, 
     foreign and domestic; that you will bear true faith and 
     allegiance to the same; that you take this obligation freely, 
     without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and 
     that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the 
     office on which you are about to enter, so help you God.
  (Applause, the Members rising.)


Mr. YOUNG. Congratulations, Madam Speaker.
                          



Mr. WELCH. Madam Speaker, I move that the House do now adjourn.
  The motion was agreed to; accordingly (at 10 o'clock and 8 minutes 
p.m.), the House adjourned until tomorrow, Friday, January 4, 2019, at 
9 a.m.
                        


Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, by direction of the Republican Conference, 
I offer a privileged resolution and ask for its immediate 
consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 8
       Resolved, That the following named Members be, and are 
     hereby, elected to the following committees of the House of 
     Representatives:
       (1) Committee on Appropriations.--Ms. Granger.
       (2) Committee on The Budget.--Mr. Womack.
       (3) Committee on Energy and Commerce.--Mr. Walden.
       (4) Committee on Financial Services.--Mr. McHenry.
       (5) Committee on Rules.--Mr. Cole.
       (6) Committee on Ways and Means.--Mr. Brady of Texas.
  Ms. CHENEY (during the reading). Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that the resolution be considered as read and printed in the 
Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Wyoming?
  There was no objection.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and insert 
extraneous material on H.R. 21, and further, that I may insert in the 
Congressional Record today such material as I may deem explanatory of 
H.R. 21.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from New York?
  There was no objection.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 5, I call up 
the bill (H.R. 21) making appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate 
consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the bill is 
considered read.
  The text of the bill is as follows:
                                H.R. 21
       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,
     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
       This Act may be cited as the ``Consolidated Appropriations 
     Act, 2019''.
     SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO ACT.
       Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
     ``this Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be 
     treated as referring only to the provisions of that division.
     SEC. 3. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
       The explanatory statement regarding this Act, printed in 
     the House section of the Congressional Record on or about 
     January 3, 2019 and submitted by the Chair of the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, shall have 
     the same effect with respect to allocation of funds and 
     implementation of this Act as if it were a joint explanatory 
     statement of a committee of conference.
   DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
        That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
     Department of the Interior, environment, and related agencies 
     for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other 
     purposes, namely:
                                TITLE I
                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
                       Bureau of Land Management
                   management of lands and resources
       For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
     development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, 
     acquisition of easements and other interests in lands, and 
     performance of other functions, including maintenance of 
     facilities, as authorized by law, in the management of lands 
     and their resources under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of 
     Land Management, including the general administration of the 
     Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
     pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 
     3150(a)), $1,196,143,000, to remain available until expended, 
     including all such amounts as are collected from permit 
     processing fees, as authorized but made subject to future 
     appropriation by section 35(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Mineral 
     Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191), except that amounts from permit 
     processing fees may be used for any bureau-related expenses 
     associated with the processing of oil and gas applications 
     for permits to drill and related use of authorizations: 
     Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
     heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available to carry out the 
     Colorado River Basin salinity control program.
       In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law Administration 
     program operations, including the cost of administering the 
     mining claim fee program, to remain available until expended, 
     to be reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau and credited 
     to this appropriation from mining claim maintenance fees and 
     location fees that are hereby authorized for fiscal year 
     2019, so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at 
     not more than $1,196,143,000, and $2,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, from communication site rental fees 
     established by the Bureau for the cost of administering 
     communication site activities.
                            land acquisition
       For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 
     318(d) of Public Law 94-579, including administrative 
     expenses and acquisition of lands or waters, or interests 
     therein, $26,016,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended.
                   oregon and california grant lands
       For expenses necessary for management, protection, and 
     development of resources and
     for construction, operation, and maintenance of access roads, 
     reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon 
     and California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands 
     in the Oregon and California land-grant counties of Oregon, 
     and on adjacent rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands or 
     interests therein, including existing connecting roads on or 
     adjacent to such grant lands; $106,543,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the 
     aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year from 
     the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is 
     hereby made a charge against the Oregon and California land-
     grant fund and shall be transferred to the General Fund in 
     the Treasury in accordance with the second paragraph of 
     subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (43 
     U.S.C. 2605).
                           range improvements
       For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands 
     and interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands 
     pursuant to section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and 
     Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any 
     other Act, sums equal to 50 percent of all moneys received 
     during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 of the 
     Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m) and the amount 
     designated for range improvements from grazing fees and 
     mineral leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands 
     transferred to the Department of the Interior pursuant to 
     law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall be 
     available for administrative expenses.
               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures
       For administrative expenses and other costs related to 
     processing application documents and other authorizations for 
     use and disposal of public lands and resources, for costs of 
     providing copies of official public land documents, for 
     monitoring construction, operation, and termination of 
     facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and for 
     rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
     collected under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
     and under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
     185), to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any provision to the contrary of section 
     305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys 
     that have been or will be received pursuant to that section, 
     whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, 
     if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
     that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be 
     expended under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to 
     improve, protect, or rehabilitate any public lands 
     administered through the Bureau of Land Management which have 
     been damaged by the action of a resource developer, 
     purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
     regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action 
     are used on the exact lands damaged which led to the action: 
     Provided further, That any such moneys that are in excess of 
     amounts needed to repair damage to the exact land for which 
     funds were collected may be used to repair other damaged 
     public lands.
                       miscellaneous trust funds
       In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under 
     existing laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as 
     may be contributed under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 
     U.S.C. 1737), and such amounts as may be advanced for 
     administrative costs, surveys, appraisals, and costs of 
     making conveyances of omitted lands under section 211(b) of 
     that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available until 
     expended.
                       administrative provisions
       The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations 
     funded under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, 
     grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements 
     with public and private entities, including with States. 
     Appropriations for the Bureau shall be available for 
     purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
     structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary 
     buildings and appurtenant facilities to which the United 
     States has title; up to $100,000 for payments, at the 
     discretion of the Secretary, for information or evidence 
     concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau; 
     miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
     activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be 
     accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to 
     exceed $10,000: Provided, That notwithstanding Public Law 90-
     620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
     sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, 
     procure printing services from cooperators in connection with 
     jointly produced publications for which the cooperators share 
     the cost of printing either in cash or in services, and the 
     Bureau determines the cooperator is capable of meeting 
     accepted quality standards: Provided further, That projects 
     to be funded pursuant to a written commitment by a State 
     government to provide an identified amount of money in 
     support of the project may be carried out by the Bureau on a 
     reimbursable basis. Appropriations herein made shall not be 
     available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild 
     horses and burros in the care of the Bureau or its 
     contractors or for the sale of wild horses and burros that 
     results in their destruction for processing into commercial 
     products.
                United States Fish and Wildlife Service
                          resource management
       For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and 
     Wildlife Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific 
     and economic studies, general administration, and for the 
     performance of other authorized functions related to such 
     resources, $1,292,067,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020: Provided, That not to exceed $17,818,000 
     shall be used for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), and 
     (e) of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
     U.S.C. 1533) (except for processing petitions, developing and 
     issuing proposed and final regulations, and taking any other 
     steps to implement actions described in subsection (c)(2)(A), 
     (c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)).
                              construction
       For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of 
     buildings and other facilities required in the conservation, 
     management, investigation, protection, and utilization of 
     fish and wildlife resources, and the acquisition of lands and 
     interests therein; $50,413,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
                            land acquisition
       For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 
     54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, 
     and for acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, 
     in accordance with statutory authority applicable to the 
     United States Fish and Wildlife Service, $45,189,000, to be 
     derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the 
     funds appropriated for specific land acquisition projects may 
     be used to pay for any administrative overhead, planning or 
     other management costs.
            cooperative endangered species conservation fund
       For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the 
     Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $49,495,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which $18,695,000 is 
     to be derived from the Cooperative Endangered Species 
     Conservation Fund; and of which $30,800,000 is to be derived 
     from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.
                     national wildlife refuge fund
       For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 
     1978 (16 U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.
               north american wetlands conservation fund
       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
     North American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et 
     seq.), $43,000,000, to remain available until expended.
                neotropical migratory bird conservation
       For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical 
     Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), 
     $3,910,000, to remain available until expended.
                multinational species conservation fund
       For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
     Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
     Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the 
     Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 
     et seq.), the Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 
     6301 et seq.), and the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 
     (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $12,061,000, to remain available 
     until expended.
                    state and tribal wildlife grants
       For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the 
     District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States 
     Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, 
     and Indian tribes under the provisions of the Fish and 
     Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination 
     Act, for the development and implementation of programs for 
     the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including species 
     that are not hunted or fished, $65,571,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That of the amount 
     provided herein, $4,209,000 is for a competitive grant 
     program for Indian tribes not subject to the remaining 
     provisions of this appropriation: Provided further, That 
     $6,362,000 is for a competitive grant program to implement 
     approved plans for States, territories, and other 
     jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected States, the 
     regional Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not 
     subject to the remaining provisions of this appropriation: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall, after deducting 
     $10,571,000 and administrative expenses, apportion the amount 
     provided herein in the following manner: (1) to the District 
     of Columbia and to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, each a 
     sum equal to not more than one-half of 1 percent thereof; and 
     (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin 
     Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
     Islands, each a sum equal to not more than one-fourth of 1 
     percent thereof: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: (1) 
     one-third of which is based on the ratio to which the land 
     area of such State bears to the total land area of all such 
     States; and (2) two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to 
     which the population of such State bears to the total 
     population of all such States: Provided further, That the 
     amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be adjusted 
     equitably so that no State shall be apportioned a sum which 
     is less than 1 percent of the amount available for 
     apportionment under this paragraph for any fiscal year or 
     more than 5 percent of such amount: Provided further, That 
     the Federal share of planning grants shall not exceed 75 
     percent of the
     total costs of such projects and the Federal share of 
     implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of the 
     total costs of such projects: Provided further, That the non-
     Federal share of such projects may not be derived from 
     Federal grant programs: Provided further, That any amount 
     apportioned in 2019 to any State, territory, or other 
     jurisdiction that remains unobligated as of September 30, 
     2020, shall be reapportioned, together with funds 
     appropriated in 2021, in the manner provided herein.
                       administrative provisions
       The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may carry out 
     the operations of Service programs by direct expenditure, 
     contracts, grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable 
     agreements with public and private entities. Appropriations 
     and funds available to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
     Service shall be available for repair of damage to public 
     roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by 
     operations of the Service; options for the purchase of land 
     at not to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to 
     such public recreational uses on conservation areas as are 
     consistent with their primary purpose; and the maintenance 
     and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities 
     under the jurisdiction of the Service and to which the United 
     States has title, and which are used pursuant to law in 
     connection with management, and investigation of fish and 
     wildlife resources: Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 
     501, the Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and 
     partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
     services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
     publications for which the cooperators share at least one-
     half the cost of printing either in cash or services and the 
     Service determines the cooperator is capable of meeting 
     accepted quality standards: Provided further, That the 
     Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for 
     existing aircraft: Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 
     U.S.C. 3302, all fees collected for non-toxic shot review and 
     approval shall be deposited under the heading ``United States 
     Fish and Wildlife Service--Resource Management'' and shall be 
     available to the Secretary, without further appropriation, to 
     be used for expenses of processing of such non-toxic shot 
     type or coating applications and revising regulations as 
     necessary, and shall remain available until expended.
                         National Park Service
                 operation of the national park system
       For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
     maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the 
     National Park Service and for the general administration of 
     the National Park Service, $2,500,369,000, of which 
     $10,032,000 for planning and interagency coordination in 
     support of Everglades restoration and $141,961,000 for 
     maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for 
     constructed assets and $149,075,000 for cyclic maintenance 
     projects for constructed assets shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020: Provided, That funds appropriated under 
     this heading in this Act are available for the purposes of 
     section 5 of Public Law 95-348: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 9(a) of the United States 
     Semiquincentennial Commission Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-
     196; 130 Stat. 691), $500,000 of the funds made available 
     under this heading shall be provided to the organization 
     selected under section 9(b) of that Act for expenditure by 
     the United States Semiquincentennial Commission in accordance 
     with that Act.
                  national recreation and preservation
       For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, 
     natural programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership 
     programs, environmental compliance and review, international 
     park affairs, and grant administration, not otherwise 
     provided for, $64,138,000.
                       historic preservation fund
       For expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
     Historic Preservation Act (division A of subtitle III of 
     title 54, United States Code), $91,910,000, to be derived 
     from the Historic Preservation Fund and to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided , That of the funds 
     provided for the Historic Preservation Fund, $500,000 is for 
     competitive grants for the survey and nomination of 
     properties to the National Register of Historic Places and as 
     National Historic Landmarks associated with communities 
     currently under-represented, as determined by the Secretary, 
     $13,000,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the sites 
     and stories of the Civil Rights movement, $8,000,000 is for 
     grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and 
     $5,000,000 is for competitive grants for the restoration of 
     historic properties of national, State and local significance 
     listed on or eligible for inclusion on the National Register 
     of Historic Places, to be made without imposing the usage or 
     direct grant restrictions of section 101(e)(3) (54 U.S.C. 
     302904) of the National Historical Preservation Act: Provided 
     further, That such competitive grants shall be made without 
     imposing the matching requirements in section 302902(b)(3) of 
     title 54, United States Code, to States and Indian tribes as 
     defined in chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian 
     organizations, local governments, including Certified Local 
     Governments, and non-profit organizations.
                              construction
       For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of 
     physical facilities, and compliance and planning for programs 
     and areas administered by the National Park Service, 
     $364,704,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That notwithstanding any other provision of law, for any 
     project initially funded in fiscal year 2019 with a future 
     phase indicated in the National Park Service 5-Year Line Item 
     Construction Plan, a single procurement may be issued which 
     includes the full scope of the project: Provided further, 
     That the solicitation and contract shall contain the clause 
     availability of funds found at 48 CFR 52.232-18: Provided 
     further, That National Park Service Donations, Park 
     Concessions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees may be made 
     available for the cost of adjustments and changes within the 
     original scope of effort for projects funded by the National 
     Park Service Construction appropriation: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations, in accordance with current 
     reprogramming thresholds, prior to making any charges 
     authorized by this section.
                 land acquisition and state assistance
       For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 
     54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, 
     and for acquisition of lands or waters, or interest therein, 
     in accordance with the statutory authority applicable to the 
     National Park Service, $174,444,000, to be derived from the 
     Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available 
     until expended, of which $124,006,000 is for the State 
     assistance program and of which $15,000,000 shall be for the 
     American Battlefield Protection Program grants as authorized 
     by chapter 3081 of title 54, United States Code.
                          centennial challenge
       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
     section 101701 of title 54, United States Code, relating to 
     challenge cost share agreements, $23,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, for Centennial Challenge projects 
     and programs: Provided, That not less than 50 percent of the 
     total cost of each project or program shall be derived from 
     non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, or a 
     pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of 
     credit.
                       administrative provisions
  
                     (including transfer of funds)
       In addition to other uses set forth in section 101917(c)(2) 
     of title 54, United States Code, franchise fees credited to a 
     sub-account shall be available for expenditure by the 
     Secretary, without further appropriation, for use at any unit 
     within the National Park System to extinguish or reduce 
     liability for Possessory Interest or leasehold surrender 
     interest. Such funds may only be used for this purpose to the 
     extent that the benefitting unit anticipated franchise fee 
     receipts over the term of the contract at that unit exceed 
     the amount of funds used to extinguish or reduce liability. 
     Franchise fees at the benefitting unit shall be credited to 
     the sub-account of the originating unit over a period not to 
     exceed the term of a single contract at the benefitting unit, 
     in the amount of funds so expended to extinguish or reduce 
     liability.
       For the costs of administration of the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) 
     of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 
     109-432), the National Park Service may retain up to 3 
     percent of the amounts which are authorized to be disbursed 
     under such section, such retained amounts to remain available 
     until expended.
       National Park Service funds may be transferred to the 
     Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of 
     Transportation, for purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204. 
     Transfers may include a reasonable amount for FHWA 
     administrative support costs.
                    United States Geological Survey
                 surveys, investigations, and research
       For expenses necessary for the United States Geological 
     Survey to perform surveys, investigations, and research 
     covering topography, geology, hydrology, biology, and the 
     mineral and water resources of the United States, its 
     territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized by 
     43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
     mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to 
     power permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     licensees; administer the minerals exploration program (30 
     U.S.C. 641); conduct inquiries into the economic conditions 
     affecting mining and materials processing industries (30 
     U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and related 
     purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and disseminate 
     data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,148,457,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020; of which $100,000 
     shall be made available to the United States Geological 
     Survey Mineral Resources Program for the development of a map 
     depicting pyrrhotite occurrences throughout the United 
     States; of which $84,337,000 shall remain available until 
     expended for satellite operations; and of which $15,164,000 
     shall be available until expended for deferred maintenance 
     and capital improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in 
     cost: Provided, That none of the funds provided for the 
     ecosystem research activity shall be used to conduct new 
     surveys on private property, unless specifically authorized 
     in writing by the property owner: Provided further, That no 
     part of this appropriation shall be used to pay more than 
     one-half the cost of topographic mapping or water resources 
     data collection and investigations carried on in cooperation 
     with
     States and municipalities: Provided further, That of the 
     amounts made available under this heading, not less than 
     $200,000 shall be used for activities to better understand 
     mechanisms that result in toxins being present in harmful 
     algal blooms.
                       administrative provisions
       From within the amount appropriated for activities of the 
     United States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary 
     shall be available for contracting for the furnishing of 
     topographic maps and for the making of geophysical or other 
     specialized surveys when it is administratively determined 
     that such procedures are in the public interest; construction 
     and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
     facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations, 
     observation wells, and seismic equipment; expenses of the 
     United States National Committee for Geological Sciences; and 
     payment of compensation and expenses of persons employed by 
     the Survey duly appointed to represent the United States in 
     the negotiation and administration of interstate compacts: 
     Provided, That activities funded by appropriations herein 
     made may be accomplished through the use of contracts, 
     grants, or cooperative agreements as defined in section 6302 
     of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That the 
     United States Geological Survey may enter into contracts or 
     cooperative agreements directly with individuals or 
     indirectly with institutions or nonprofit organizations, 
     without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the temporary or 
     intermittent services of students or recent graduates, who 
     shall be considered employees for the purpose of chapters 57 
     and 81 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
     compensation for travel and work injuries, and chapter 171 of 
     title 28, United States Code, relating to tort claims, but 
     shall not be considered to be Federal employees for any other 
     purposes.
                   Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
                        ocean energy management
       For expenses necessary for granting and administering 
     leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for 
     oil and gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-related 
     purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf and approving 
     operations related thereto, as authorized by law; for 
     environmental studies, as authorized by law; for implementing 
     other laws and to the extent provided by Presidential or 
     Secretarial delegation; and for matching grants or 
     cooperative agreements, $179,266,000, of which $129,450,000 
     is to remain available until September 30, 2020, and of which 
     $49,816,000 is to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That this total appropriation shall be reduced by amounts 
     collected by the Secretary and credited to this appropriation 
     from additions to receipts resulting from increases to lease 
     rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost 
     recovery fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of 
     Ocean Energy Management pursuant to the Outer Continental 
     Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, 
     and miscellaneous administrative activities: Provided 
     further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
     such collections are received during the fiscal year, so as 
     to result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated 
     at not more than $129,450,000: Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable expenses 
     related to promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup 
     activities.
             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
             offshore safety and environmental enforcement
       For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations 
     related to leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements 
     for use for oil and gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-
     related purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf, as 
     authorized by law; for enforcing and implementing laws and 
     regulations as authorized by law and to the extent provided 
     by Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for matching 
     grants or cooperative agreements, $145,475,000, of which 
     $121,351,000 is to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     and of which $24,124,000 is to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That this total appropriation shall be 
     reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and credited to 
     this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting from 
     increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, 
     and from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the 
     Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement pursuant to 
     the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, 
     assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous administrative 
     activities: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
     received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final 
     fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at not more than 
     $121,351,000.
       For an additional amount, $41,765,000, to remain available 
     until expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the 
     Secretary and credited to this appropriation, which shall be 
     derived from non-refundable inspection fees collected in 
     fiscal year 2019, as provided in this Act: Provided, That to 
     the extent that amounts realized from such inspection fees 
     exceed $41,765,000, the amounts realized in excess of 
     $41,765,000 shall be credited to this appropriation and 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That for 
     fiscal year 2019, not less than 50 percent of the inspection 
     fees expended by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental 
     Enforcement will be used to fund personnel and mission-
     related costs to expand capacity and expedite the orderly 
     development, subject to environmental safeguards, of the 
     Outer Continental Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental 
     Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), including the 
     review of applications for permits to drill.
                           oil spill research
       For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, 
     title IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, 
     section 8201 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $12,700,000, 
     which shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
     Fund, to remain available until expended.
          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
                       regulation and technology
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public 
     Law 95-87, $114,900,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020: Provided, That appropriations for the Office of 
     Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement may provide for 
     the travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal 
     personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
     Enforcement sponsored training.
       In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce 
     permits issued by the Office pursuant to section 507 of 
     Public Law 95-87 (30 U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That fees assessed and 
     collected by the Office pursuant to such section 507 shall be 
     credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
     collections, to remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general 
     fund shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
     fiscal year, so as to result in a fiscal year 2019 
     appropriation estimated at not more than $114,900,000.
                    abandoned mine reclamation fund
       For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface 
     Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
     $22,952,000, to be derived from receipts of the Abandoned 
     Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department 
     of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 percent from 
     the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United States 
     Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts: 
     Provided further, That funds made available under title IV of 
     Public Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal 
     share of the cost of projects funded by the Federal 
     Government for the purpose of environmental restoration 
     related to treatment or abatement of acid mine drainage from 
     abandoned mines: Provided further, That such projects must be 
     consistent with the purposes and priorities of the Surface 
     Mining Control and Reclamation Act: Provided further, That 
     amounts provided under this heading may be used for the 
     travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal personnel 
     attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
     Enforcement sponsored training.
       In addition, $115,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, for grants to States and federally recognized 
     Indian Tribes for reclamation of abandoned mine lands and 
     other related activities in accordance with the terms and 
     conditions in Senate report 115-276: Provided, That such 
     additional amount shall be used for economic and community 
     development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
     403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
     1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)): Provided further, That of such 
     additional amount, $75,000,000 shall be distributed in equal 
     amounts to the 3 Appalachian States with the greatest amount 
     of unfunded needs to meet the priorities described in 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of such section, $30,000,000 shall be 
     distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian States with 
     the subsequent greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet such 
     priorities, and $10,000,000 shall be for grants to federally 
     recognized Indian Tribes without regard to their status as 
     certified or uncertified under the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation 
     of abandoned mine lands and other related activities in 
     accordance with the terms and conditions in Senate report 
     115-276 and shall be used for economic and community 
     development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
     403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
     1977: Provided further, That such additional amount shall be 
     allocated to States and Indian Tribes within 60 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act.
        Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education
                      operation of indian programs
  
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian 
     programs, as authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of 
     November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
     5301 et seq.), the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 
     2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 
     (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $2,403,890,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020, except as otherwise provided 
     herein; of which not to exceed $8,500 may be for official 
     reception and representation expenses; of which not to exceed 
     $76,000,000 shall be for welfare assistance payments: 
     Provided, That in cases of
     designated Federal disasters, the Secretary may exceed such 
     cap, from the amounts provided herein, to provide for 
     disaster relief to Indian communities affected by the 
     disaster: Provided further, That federally recognized Indian 
     tribes and tribal organizations of federally recognized 
     Indian tribes may use their tribal priority allocations for 
     unmet welfare assistance costs: Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $680,673,000 for school operations costs of Bureau-
     funded schools and other education programs shall become 
     available on July 1, 2019, and shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020: Provided further, That not to exceed 
     $54,174,000 shall remain available until expended for housing 
     improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, litigation 
     support, land records improvement, and the Navajo-Hopi 
     Settlement Program: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, including but not limited to the 
     Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et 
     seq.) and section 1128 of the Education Amendments of 1978 
     (25 U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed $81,036,000 within and only 
     from such amounts made available for school operations shall 
     be available for administrative cost grants associated with 
     grants approved prior to July 1, 2019: Provided further, That 
     any forestry funds allocated to a federally recognized tribe 
     which remain unobligated as of September 30, 2020, may be 
     transferred during fiscal year 2021 to an Indian forest land 
     assistance account established for the benefit of the holder 
     of the funds within the holder's trust fund account: Provided 
     further, That any such unobligated balances not so 
     transferred shall expire on September 30, 2021: Provided 
     further, That in order to enhance the safety of Bureau field 
     employees, the Bureau may use funds to purchase uniforms or 
     other identifying articles of clothing for personnel.
                         contract support costs
       For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for 
     contract support costs associated with Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act agreements with 
     the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 2019, such sums 
     as may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation 
     through September 30, 2020: Provided, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, no amounts made available under 
     this heading shall be available for transfer to another 
     budget account.
                              construction
  
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
     irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
     facilities, including architectural and engineering services 
     by contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; 
     and preparation of lands for farming, and for construction of 
     the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 
     87-483; $359,419,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That such amounts as may be available for the 
     construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project may be 
     transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation: Provided further, 
     That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available 
     to the Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway 
     Trust Fund may be used to cover the road program management 
     costs of the Bureau: Provided further, That any funds 
     provided for the Safety of Dams program pursuant to the Act 
     of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall be made available 
     on a nonreimbursable basis: Provided further, That for fiscal 
     year 2019, in implementing new construction, replacement 
     facilities construction, or facilities improvement and repair 
     project grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to 
     grant schools under Public Law 100-297, the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit Requirements 
     and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs contained in part 
     12 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as the 
     regulatory requirements: Provided further, That such grants 
     shall not be subject to section 12.61 of title 43, Code of 
     Federal Regulations; the Secretary and the grantee shall 
     negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work 
     to be performed: Provided further, That in considering grant 
     applications, the Secretary shall consider whether such 
     grantee would be deficient in assuring that the construction 
     projects conform to applicable building standards and codes 
     and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
     required by section 1125(b) of title XI of Public Law 95-561 
     (25 U.S.C. 2005(b)), with respect to organizational and 
     financial management capabilities: Provided further, That if 
     the Secretary declines a grant application, the Secretary 
     shall follow the requirements contained in section 5206(f) of 
     Public Law 100-297 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)): Provided further, 
     That any disputes between the Secretary and any grantee 
     concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision 
     in section 5208(e) of Public Law 107-110 (25 U.S.C. 2507(e)): 
     Provided further, That in order to ensure timely completion 
     of construction projects, the Secretary may assume control of 
     a project and all funds related to the project, if, within 18 
     months of the date of enactment of this Act, any grantee 
     receiving funds appropriated in this Act or in any prior Act, 
     has not completed the planning and design phase of the 
     project and commenced construction: Provided further, That 
     this appropriation may be reimbursed from the Office of the 
     Special Trustee for American Indians appropriation for the 
     appropriate share of construction costs for space expansion 
     needed in agency offices to meet trust reform implementation: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
     heading, $10,000,000 shall be derived from the Indian 
     Irrigation Fund established by section 3211 of the WIIN Act 
     (Public Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1749).
 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians
       For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
     implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements 
     pursuant to Public Laws 99-264, 100-580, 101-618, 111-11, 
     111-291, and 114-322, and for implementation of other land 
     and water rights settlements, $55,457,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     make payments in such amounts as necessary to satisfy the 
     total authorized amount for the Navajo Nation Water Rights 
     Trust Fund.
                 indian guaranteed loan program account
       For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, 
     $9,279,000, of which $1,252,000 is for administrative 
     expenses, as authorized by the Indian Financing Act of 1974: 
     Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
     any part of which is to be guaranteed or insured, not to 
     exceed $123,565,389.
                       administrative provisions
       The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of 
     Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative 
     agreements, compacts, and grants, either directly or in 
     cooperation with States and other organizations.
       Notwithstanding Public Law 87-279 (25 U.S.C. 15), the 
     Bureau of Indian Affairs may contract for services in support 
     of the management, operation, and maintenance of the Power 
     Division of the San Carlos Irrigation Project.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
     available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office 
     oversight and Executive Direction and Administrative Services 
     (except executive direction and administrative services 
     funding for Tribal Priority Allocations, regional offices, 
     and facilities operations and maintenance) shall be available 
     for contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
     with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the 
     Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance 
     Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-413).
       In the event any tribe returns appropriations made 
     available by this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, this 
     action shall not diminish the Federal Government's trust 
     responsibility to that tribe, or the government-to-government 
     relationship between the United States and that tribe, or 
     that tribe's ability to access future appropriations.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
     available to the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the 
     amounts provided herein for assistance to public schools 
     under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available to support 
     the operation of any elementary or secondary school in the 
     State of Alaska.
       No funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education shall 
     be used to support expanded grades for any school or 
     dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved by 
     the Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau of 
     Indian Education school system as of October 1, 1995, except 
     that the Secretary of the Interior may waive this prohibition 
     to support expansion of up to one additional grade when the 
     Secretary determines such waiver is needed to support 
     accomplishment of the mission of the Bureau of Indian 
     Education, or more than one grade to expand the elementary 
     grade structure for Bureau-funded schools with a K-2 grade 
     structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations made available 
     in this or any prior Act for schools funded by the Bureau 
     shall be available, in accordance with the Bureau's funding 
     formula, only to the schools in the Bureau school system as 
     of September 1, 1996, and to any school or school program 
     that was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds made available 
     under this Act may not be used to establish a charter school 
     at a Bureau-funded school (as that term is defined in section 
     1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), 
     except that a charter school that is in existence on the date 
     of the enactment of this Act and that has operated at a 
     Bureau-funded school before September 1, 1999, may continue 
     to operate during that period, but only if the charter school 
     pays to the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to reimburse the 
     Bureau for the use of the real and personal property 
     (including buses and vans), the funds of the charter school 
     are kept separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau 
     does not assume any obligation for charter school programs of 
     the State in which the school is located if the charter 
     school loses such funding. Employees of Bureau-funded schools 
     sharing a campus with a charter school and performing 
     functions related to the charter school's operation and 
     employees of a charter school shall not be treated as Federal 
     employees for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United 
     States Code.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
     section 113 of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, 
     if in fiscal year 2003 or 2004 a grantee received indirect 
     and administrative costs pursuant to a distribution formula 
     based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, the Secretary 
     shall continue to
     distribute indirect and administrative cost funds to such 
     grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.
       Funds available under this Act may not be used to establish 
     satellite locations of schools in the Bureau school system as 
     of September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary may waive 
     this prohibition in order for an Indian tribe to provide 
     language and cultural immersion educational programs for non-
     public schools located within the jurisdictional area of the 
     tribal government which exclusively serve tribal members, do 
     not include grades beyond those currently served at the 
     existing Bureau-funded school, provide an educational 
     environment with educator presence and academic facilities 
     comparable to the Bureau-funded school, comply with all 
     applicable Tribal, Federal, or State health and safety 
     standards, and the Americans with Disabilities Act, and 
     demonstrate the benefits of establishing operations at a 
     satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary costs, 
     such as for transportation or other impacts to students such 
     as those caused by busing students extended distances: 
     Provided, That no funds available under this Act may be used 
     to fund operations, maintenance, rehabilitation, construction 
     or other facilities-related costs for such assets that are 
     not owned by the Bureau: Provided further, That the term 
     ``satellite school'' means a school location physically 
     separated from the existing Bureau school by more than 50 
     miles but that forms part of the existing school in all other 
     respects.
                          Departmental Offices
                        Office of the Secretary
  
                        departmental operations
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses for management of the Department of 
     the Interior and for grants and cooperative agreements, as 
     authorized by law, $131,673,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020; of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for 
     official reception and representation expenses; and of which 
     up to $1,000,000 shall be available for workers compensation 
     payments and unemployment compensation payments associated 
     with the orderly closure of the United States Bureau of 
     Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Office of Valuation 
     Services is to be derived from the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund and shall remain available until expended; 
     and of which $9,704,000 for Indian land, mineral, and 
     resource valuation activities shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That funds for Indian land, mineral, and 
     resource valuation activities may, as needed, be transferred 
     to and merged with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of 
     Indian Education ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account and 
     the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians 
     ``Federal Trust Programs'' account: Provided further, That 
     funds made available through contracts or grants obligated 
     during fiscal year 2019, as authorized by the Indian Self-
     Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall 
     remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee: 
     Provided further, That within available amounts provided 
     under this heading, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     designate the rest area bound by Alexandria Avenue, West 
     Boulevard Drive, and the George Washington Memorial Parkway 
     on the Mount Vernon Trail within the George Washington 
     Memorial Parkway as the ``Peter B. Webster III Memorial 
     Area'' and any reference in a law, map regulation, document, 
     paper, or other record of the United States to the rest area 
     shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Peter B. Webster 
     III Memorial Area''; Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     the Interior shall accept and expend private contributions 
     for the design, procurement, preparation, and installation of 
     a plaque honoring Peter B. Webster III on the condition that 
     the Director of the National Park Service shall approve the 
     design and placement of the plaque: Provided further, That of 
     the amounts made available under this heading, $400,000 shall 
     be made available to the commission established by section 
     3(a) of the Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff Commission 
     on Native Children Act (Public Law 114-244; 130 Stat. 981).
                       administrative provisions
       For fiscal year 2019, up to $400,000 of the payments 
     authorized by chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, may 
     be retained for administrative expenses of the Payments in 
     Lieu of Taxes Program: Provided, That the amounts provided 
     under this Act specifically for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes 
     program are the only amounts available for payments 
     authorized under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code: 
     Provided further, That in the event the sums appropriated for 
     any fiscal year for payments pursuant to this chapter are 
     insufficient to make the full payments authorized by that 
     chapter to all units of local government, then the payment to 
     each local government shall be made proportionally: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may make adjustments to payment 
     to individual units of local government to correct for prior 
     overpayments or underpayments: Provided further, That no 
     payment shall be made pursuant to that chapter to otherwise 
     eligible units of local government if the computed amount of 
     the payment is less than $100.
                            Insular Affairs
                       assistance to territories
       For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under 
     the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other 
     jurisdictions identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-
     188, $100,688,000, of which: (1) $91,240,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for territorial assistance, 
     including general technical assistance, maintenance 
     assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative 
     activities, and brown tree snake control and research; grants 
     to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and 
     expenses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to 
     the Government of American Samoa, in addition to current 
     local revenues, for construction and support of governmental 
     functions; grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands, as 
     authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, as 
     authorized by law; and grants to the Government of the 
     Northern Mariana Islands , as authorized by law (Public Law 
     94-241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $9,448,000 shall be available 
     until September 30, 2020, for salaries and expenses of the 
     Office of Insular Affairs: Provided, That all financial 
     transactions of the territorial and local governments herein 
     provided for, including such transactions of all agencies or 
     instrumentalities established or used by such governments, 
     may be audited by the Government Accountability Office, at 
     its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, 
     United States Code: Provided further, That Northern Mariana 
     Islands Covenant grant funding shall be provided according to 
     those terms of the Agreement of the Special Representatives 
     on Future United States Financial Assistance for the Northern 
     Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 104-134: Provided 
     further, That the funds for the program of operations and 
     maintenance improvement are appropriated to institutionalize 
     routine operations and maintenance improvement of capital 
     infrastructure with territorial participation and cost 
     sharing to be determined by the Secretary based on the 
     grantee's commitment to timely maintenance of its capital 
     assets: Provided further, That any appropriation for disaster 
     assistance under this heading in this Act or previous 
     appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds 
     for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant 
     to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).
                      compact of free association
       For grants and necessary expenses, $3,563,000, to remain 
     available until expended, as provided for in sections 
     221(a)(2) and 233 of the Compact of Free Association for the 
     Republic of Palau; and section 221(a)(2) of the Compacts of 
     Free Association for the Government of the Republic of the 
     Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, as 
     authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.
                       Administrative Provisions
                     (including transfer of funds)
       At the request of the Governor of Guam, the Secretary may 
     transfer discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided 
     under section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 
     104-134, that are allocated for Guam, to the Secretary of 
     Agriculture for the subsidy cost of direct or guaranteed 
     loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the amount of the 
     subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, for 
     the purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 
     1936 and section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act for construction and repair projects in Guam, 
     and such funds shall remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such 
     loans or loan guarantees may be made without regard to the 
     population of the area, credit elsewhere requirements, and 
     restrictions on the types of eligible entities under the 
     Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and section 306(a)(1) of 
     the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act: Provided 
     further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
     Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made 
     available to make or guarantee loans under such authorities.
                        Office of the Solicitor
  
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, 
     $65,674,000.
                      Office of Inspector General
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     $52,486,000.
           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians
                         federal trust programs
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
     expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and 
     grants, $112,380,000, to remain available until expended, of 
     which not to exceed $19,016,000 from this or any other Act, 
     may be available for historical accounting: Provided, That 
     funds for trust management improvements and litigation 
     support may, as needed, be transferred to or merged with the 
     Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, 
     ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account; the Office of the 
     Solicitor, ``Salaries and Expenses'' account; and the Office 
     of the Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' account: 
     Provided further, That funds made available through contracts 
     or grants obligated during fiscal year 2019, as authorized
     by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 
     et seq.), shall remain available until expended by the 
     contractor or grantee: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be 
     required to provide a quarterly statement of performance for 
     any Indian trust account that has not had activity for at 
     least 15 months and has a balance of $15 or less: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall issue an annual account 
     statement and maintain a record of any such accounts and 
     shall permit the balance in each such account to be withdrawn 
     upon the express written request of the account holder: 
     Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000 is available for 
     the Secretary to make payments to correct administrative 
     errors of either disbursements from or deposits to Individual 
     Indian Money or Tribal accounts after September 30, 2002: 
     Provided further, That erroneous payments that are recovered 
     shall be credited to and remain available in this account for 
     this purpose: Provided further, That the Secretary shall not 
     be required to reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a 
     balance of less than $500 unless the Office of the Special 
     Trustee receives proof of ownership from a Special Deposit 
     Accounts claimant: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 102 of the American Indian Trust Fund Management 
     Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-412) or any other 
     provision of law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust 
     accounts of individuals whose whereabouts are unknown for a 
     continuous period of at least five years and shall not be 
     required to generate periodic statements of performance for 
     the individual accounts: Provided further, That with respect 
     to the eighth proviso, the Secretary shall continue to 
     maintain sufficient records to determine the balance of the 
     individual accounts, including any accrued interest and 
     income, and such funds shall remain available to the 
     individual account holders.
                        Department-wide Programs
  
                        wildland fire management
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire 
     suppression operations, fire science and research, emergency 
     rehabilitation, fuels management activities, and rural fire 
     assistance by the Department of the Interior, $1,116,076,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
     $18,427,000 shall be for the renovation or construction of 
     fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are also available 
     for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts 
     from which funds were previously transferred for such 
     purposes: Provided further, That of the funds provided 
     $188,000,000 is for fuels management activities: Provided 
     further, That of the funds provided $20,470,000 is for burned 
     area rehabilitation: Provided further, That persons hired 
     pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and 
     lodging without cost from funds available from this 
     appropriation: Provided further, That notwithstanding 42 
     U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or office of the 
     Department of the Interior for fire protection rendered 
     pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United 
     States property, may be credited to the appropriation from 
     which funds were expended to provide that protection, and are 
     available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, 
     That using the amounts designated under this title of this 
     Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into procurement 
     contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, for fuels 
     management activities, and for training and monitoring 
     associated with such fuels management activities on Federal 
     land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for activities that 
     benefit resources on Federal land: Provided further, That the 
     costs of implementing any cooperative agreement between the 
     Federal Government and any non-Federal entity may be shared, 
     as mutually agreed on by the affected parties: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding requirements of the Competition 
     in Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of fuels 
     management activities, may obtain maximum practicable 
     competition among: (1) local private, nonprofit, or 
     cooperative entities; (2) Youth Conservation Corps crews, 
     Public Lands Corps (Public Law 109-154), or related 
     partnerships with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups; 
     (3) small or micro-businesses; or (4) other entities that 
     will hire or train locally a significant percentage, defined 
     as 50 percent or more, of the project workforce to complete 
     such contracts: Provided further, That in implementing this 
     section, the Secretary shall develop written guidance to 
     field units to ensure accountability and consistent 
     application of the authorities provided herein: Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
     used to reimburse the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
     and the National Marine Fisheries Service for the costs of 
     carrying out their responsibilities under the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and 
     conference, as required by section 7 of such Act, in 
     connection with wildland fire management activities: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of the Interior may use wildland 
     fire appropriations to enter into leases of real property 
     with local governments, at or below fair market value, to 
     construct capitalized improvements for fire facilities on 
     such leased properties, including but not limited to fire 
     guard stations, retardant stations, and other initial attack 
     and fire support facilities, and to make advance payments for 
     any such lease or for construction activity associated with 
     the lease: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
     Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may authorize the 
     transfer of funds appropriated for wildland fire management, 
     in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000, between the 
     Departments when such transfers would facilitate and expedite 
     wildland fire management programs and projects: Provided 
     further, That funds provided for wildfire suppression shall 
     be available for support of Federal emergency response 
     actions: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
     heading shall be available for assistance to or through the 
     Department of State in connection with forest and rangeland 
     research, technical information, and assistance in foreign 
     countries, and, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
     State, shall be available to support forestry, wildland fire 
     management, and related natural resource activities outside 
     the United States and its territories and possessions, 
     including technical assistance, education and training, and 
     cooperation with United States and international 
     organizations.
                    central hazardous materials fund
       For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior 
     and any of its component offices and bureaus for the response 
     action, including associated activities, performed pursuant 
     to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
     and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), $10,010,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration
                natural resource damage assessment fund
       To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
     activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the 
     Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the 
     provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the 
     Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), 
     the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and 
     54 U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000, to remain available 
     until expended.
                          working capital fund
       For the operation and maintenance of a departmental 
     financial and business management system, information 
     technology improvements of general benefit to the Department, 
     cybersecurity, and the consolidation of facilities and 
     operations throughout the Department, $56,735,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
     appropriated in this Act or any other Act may be used to 
     establish reserves in the Working Capital Fund account other 
     than for accrued annual leave and depreciation of equipment 
     without prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may assess reasonable charges to 
     State, local and tribal government employees for training 
     services provided by the National Indian Program Training 
     Center, other than training related to Public Law 93-638: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary may lease or otherwise 
     provide space and related facilities, equipment or 
     professional services of the National Indian Program Training 
     Center to State, local and tribal government employees or 
     persons or organizations engaged in cultural, educational, or 
     recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of 
     title 40, United States Code) at the prevailing rate for 
     similar space, facilities, equipment, or services in the 
     vicinity of the National Indian Program Training Center: 
     Provided further, That all funds received pursuant to the two 
     preceding provisos shall be credited to this account, shall 
     be available until expended, and shall be used by the 
     Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian 
     Program Training Center: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     may enter into grants and cooperative agreements to support 
     the Office of Natural Resource Revenue's collection and 
     disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue 
     proceeds, as authorized by law.
                        administrative provision
       There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available 
     resources within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may 
     be obtained by donation, purchase or through available excess 
     surplus property: Provided, That existing aircraft being 
     replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value 
     used to offset the purchase price for the replacement 
     aircraft.
                  office of natural resources revenue
       For necessary expenses for management of the collection and 
     disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue 
     proceeds, and for grants and cooperative agreements, as 
     authorized by law, $137,505,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020; of which $41,727,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for the purpose of mineral revenue 
     management activities: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, $15,000 shall be available for 
     refunds of overpayments in connection with certain Indian 
     leases in which the Secretary concurred with the claimed 
     refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or 
     tribes, or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.
             General Provisions, Department of the Interior
                     (including transfers of funds)
               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau
       Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be 
     available for expenditure or transfer
     (within each bureau or office), with the approval of the 
     Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, replacement, or 
     repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other facilities 
     or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
     other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be 
     made available under this authority until funds specifically 
     made available to the Department of the Interior for 
     emergencies shall have been exhausted: Provided further, That 
     all funds used pursuant to this section must be replenished 
     by a supplemental appropriation, which must be requested as 
     promptly as possible.
             emergency transfer authority--department-wide
       Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or 
     transfer of any no year appropriation in this title, in 
     addition to the amounts included in the budget programs of 
     the several agencies, for the suppression or emergency 
     prevention of wildland fires on or threatening lands under 
     the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior; for the 
     emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under its 
     jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or 
     actual earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other 
     unavoidable causes; for contingency planning subsequent to 
     actual oil spills; for response and natural resource damage 
     assessment activities related to actual oil spills or 
     releases of hazardous substances into the environment; for 
     the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
     potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands 
     under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the 
     authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 
     7717(b)); for emergency reclamation projects under section 
     410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year 
     funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
     and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit 
     assumption of regulatory authority in the event a primacy 
     State is not carrying out the regulatory provisions of the 
     Surface Mining Act: Provided, That appropriations made in 
     this title for wildland fire operations shall be available 
     for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
     fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
     for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in 
     connection with their use for wildland fire operations, with 
     such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently 
     available at the time of receipt thereof: Provided further, 
     That for wildland fire operations, no funds shall be made 
     available under this authority until the Secretary determines 
     that funds appropriated for ``wildland fire suppression'' 
     shall be exhausted within 30 days: Provided further, That all 
     funds used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a 
     supplemental appropriation, which must be requested as 
     promptly as possible: Provided further, That such 
     replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a pro rata 
     basis, accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.
                        authorized use of funds
       Sec. 103. Appropriations made to the Department of the 
     Interior in this title shall be available for services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to 
     exceed $500,000; purchase and replacement of motor vehicles, 
     including specially equipped law enforcement vehicles; hire, 
     maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
     service in private residences in the field, when authorized 
     under regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment 
     of dues, when authorized by the Secretary, for library 
     membership in societies or associations which issue 
     publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
     than to subscribers who are not members.
            authorized use of funds, indian trust management
       Sec. 104. Appropriations made in this Act under the 
     headings Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian 
     Education, and Office of the Special Trustee for American 
     Indians and any unobligated balances from prior 
     appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be 
     available for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust 
     management and reform activities. Total funding for 
     historical accounting activities shall not exceed amounts 
     specifically designated in this Act for such purpose.
           redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs
       Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any 
     Tribal Priority Allocation funds, including tribal base 
     funds, to alleviate tribal funding inequities by transferring 
     funds to address identified, unmet needs, dual enrollment, 
     overlapping service areas or inaccurate distribution 
     methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in Tribal 
     Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal 
     year 2019. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, 
     overlapping service areas or inaccurate distribution 
     methodologies, the 10 percent limitation does not apply.
                 ellis, governors, and liberty islands
       Sec. 106. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands, 
     waters, or interests therein including the use of all or part 
     of any pier, dock, or landing within the State of New York 
     and the State of New Jersey, for the purpose of operating and 
     maintaining facilities in the support of transportation and 
     accommodation of visitors to Ellis, Governors, and Liberty 
     Islands, and of other program and administrative activities, 
     by donation or with appropriated funds, including franchise 
     fees (and other monetary consideration), or by exchange; and 
     the Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into 
     leases, subleases, concession contracts or other agreements 
     for the use of such facilities on such terms and conditions 
     as the Secretary may determine reasonable.
                outer continental shelf inspection fees
       Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2019, the Secretary shall 
     collect a nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be 
     deposited in the ``Offshore Safety and Environmental 
     Enforcement'' account, from the designated operator for 
     facilities subject to inspection under 43 U.S.C. 1348(c).
       (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are 
     above the waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in 
     place at the start of the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 
     2019 shall be:
       (1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
     processing equipment or gathering lines;
       (2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
     combination of active or inactive wells; and
       (3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with 
     any combination of active or inactive wells.
       (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all 
     inspections completed in fiscal year 2019. Fees for fiscal 
     year 2019 shall be:
       (1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
     depths of 500 feet or more; and
       (2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
     depths of less than 500 feet.
       (d) The Secretary shall bill designated operators under 
     subsection (b) within 60 days, with payment required within 
     30 days of billing. The Secretary shall bill designated 
     operators under subsection (c) within 30 days of the end of 
     the month in which the inspection occurred, with payment 
     required within 30 days of billing.
     bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement 
                             reorganization
       Sec. 108. The Secretary of the Interior, in order to 
     implement a reorganization of the Bureau of Ocean Energy 
     Management, Regulation and Enforcement, may transfer funds 
     among and between the successor offices and bureaus affected 
     by the reorganization only in conformance with the 
     reprogramming guidelines described in Senate report 115-276.
  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities
       Sec. 109. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     the Secretary of the Interior may enter into multiyear 
     cooperative agreements with nonprofit organizations and other 
     appropriate entities, and may enter into multiyear contracts 
     in accordance with the provisions of section 3903 of title 
     41, United States Code (except that the 5-year term 
     restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply), for the long-
     term care and maintenance of excess wild free roaming horses 
     and burros by such organizations or entities on private land. 
     Such cooperative agreements and contracts may not exceed 10 
     years, subject to renewal at the discretion of the Secretary.
                       mass marking of salmonids
       Sec. 110. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
     shall, in carrying out its responsibilities to protect 
     threatened and endangered species of salmon, implement a 
     system of mass marking of salmonid stocks, intended for 
     harvest, that are released from federally operated or 
     federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to 
     fish releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked 
     fish must have a visible mark that can be readily identified 
     by commercial and recreational fishers.
              contracts and agreements with indian affairs
       Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     during fiscal year 2019, in carrying out work involving 
     cooperation with State, local, and tribal governments or any 
     political subdivision thereof, Indian Affairs may record 
     obligations against accounts receivable from any such 
     entities, except that total obligations at the end of the 
     fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
     available at the end of the fiscal year.
                   humane transfer of excess animals
       Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of the Interior may transfer excess wild horses or 
     burros that have been removed from the public lands to other 
     Federal, State, and local government agencies for use as work 
     animals: Provided, That the Secretary may make any such 
     transfer immediately upon request of such Federal, State, or 
     local government agency: Provided further, That any excess 
     animal transferred under this provision shall lose its status 
     as a wild free-roaming horse or burro as defined in the Wild 
     Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act: Provided further, That 
     any Federal, State, or local government agency receiving 
     excess wild horses or burros as authorized in this section 
     shall not: destroy the horses or burros in a way that results 
     in their destruction into commercial products; sell or 
     otherwise transfer the horses or burros in a way that results 
     in their destruction for processing into commercial products; 
     or euthanize the horses or burros except upon the 
     recommendation of a licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe 
     injury, illness, or advanced age.
  
        department of the interior experienced services program
       Sec. 113. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     relating to Federal grants and cooperative agreements, the 
     Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make grants to, or 
     enter into cooperative agreements with, private nonprofit 
     organizations designated by the Secretary of Labor under 
     title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to utilize the 
     talents of older Americans in programs authorized by other 
     provisions of law administered by the Secretary and 
     consistent with such provisions of law.
       (b) Prior to awarding any grant or agreement under 
     subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that the agreement 
     would not--
       (1) result in the displacement of individuals currently 
     employed by the Department, including partial displacement 
     through reduction of non-overtime hours, wages, or employment 
     benefits;
       (2) result in the use of an individual under the Department 
     of the Interior Experienced Services Program for a job or 
     function in a case in which a Federal employee is in a layoff 
     status from the same or substantially equivalent job within 
     the Department; or
       (3) affect existing contracts for services.
                    payments in lieu of taxes (pilt)
       Sec. 114. Section 6906 of title 31, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and inserting 
     ``fiscal year 2019''.
                              sage-grouse
       Sec. 115. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to 
     write or issue pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533)--
       (1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus 
     urophasianus);
       (2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin distinct 
     population segment of greater sage-grouse.
                          technical correction
       Sec. 116. Division II of Public Law 104-333 (54 U.S.C. 
     320101 note), as amended by section 116(b)(2) of Public Law 
     114-113, is amended in each of sections 208, 310, and 607, by 
     striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2019''.
  damage to department of the interior facilities by volcanic eruption
       Sec. 117. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
     submit to Congress a report on each facility and related 
     infrastructure of the Department of the Interior damaged by a 
     volcanic eruption covered by a major disaster declared by the 
     President in calendar year 2018 in accordance with section 
     401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) (referred to in this section 
     as a ``covered facility'').
       (b) The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
     include--
       (1) an inventory of all covered facilities;
       (2) a description of--
       (A) any closures of covered facilities; and
       (B) the estimated impact on visitorship to covered 
     facilities open to the public as a result of a volcanic 
     eruption; and
       (3) a plan--
       (A) to restore or replace covered facilities; and
       (B) to restore visitorship levels to covered facilities 
     open to the public to historic visitorship levels.
       (c) In preparing the plan required under subsection (b)(3), 
     the Secretary of the Interior shall--
       (1) engage the community in which the covered facility is 
     located, including the State and units of local government; 
     and
       (2) include the estimated costs of carrying out the 
     activities described in the plan.
       Sec. 118. (a) There are appropriated under the heading 
     ``Operation of Indian Programs'' under the heading ``Bureau 
     of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education'', in 
     addition to any other amounts made available under such 
     heading and in order to provide additional funding for hiring 
     staff for tribal detention facilities, including addressing 
     the needs of newly funded tribal detention facilities, 
     $2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.
       (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
     total amount appropriated under the heading ``Working Capital 
     Fund'' for the Department of the Interior is hereby reduced 
     by $2,000,000.
                                TITLE II
                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
                         Science and Technology
                    (including rescission of funds)
       For science and technology, including research and 
     development activities, which shall include research and 
     development activities under the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980; necessary 
     expenses for personnel and related costs and travel expenses; 
     procurement of laboratory equipment and supplies; and other 
     operating expenses in support of research and development, 
     $717,723,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, 
     $5,000,000 shall be for Research: National Priorities as 
     specified in Senate report 115-276: Provided further, That of 
     unobligated balances from appropriations made available under 
     this heading, $11,250,000 are permanently rescinded: Provided 
     further, That no amounts may be rescinded pursuant to the 
     preceding proviso from amounts made available in the first 
     proviso for Research: National Priorities: Provided further, 
     That of the amounts made available under this heading, not 
     less than $5,000,000 shall be used to investigate health 
     impacts from exposure to harmful algal blooms and 
     cyanobacteria toxins, and to develop innovative methods to 
     monitor, characterize, and predict blooms for early action.
                 Environmental Programs and Management
                    (including rescission of funds)
       For environmental programs and management, including 
     necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel 
     and related costs and travel expenses; hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
     purchase of reprints; library memberships in societies or 
     associations which issue publications to members only or at a 
     price to members lower than to subscribers who are not 
     members; administrative costs of the brownfields program 
     under the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields 
     Revitalization Act of 2002; implementation of a coal 
     combustion residual permit program under section 2301 of the 
     Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to exceed $9,000 for 
     official reception and representation expenses, 
     $2,659,675,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, 
     $15,000,000 shall be for Environmental Protection: National 
     Priorities as specified in Senate report 115-276: Provided 
     further, That of the funds included under this heading, 
     $454,958,000 shall be for Geographic Programs specified in 
     the tables in the explanatory statement described in section 
     3 (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated 
     Act): Provided further, That of the unobligated balances from 
     appropriations made available under this heading, $61,676,000 
     are permanently rescinded: Provided further, That no amounts 
     may be rescinded pursuant to the preceding proviso from 
     amounts made available in the first proviso for Environmental 
     Protection: National Priorities, from amounts made available 
     in the second proviso for Geographic Programs, or from the 
     National Estuary Program (33 U.S.C. 1330).
       In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended, 
     for necessary expenses of activities described in section 
     26(b)(1) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
     2625(b)(1)): Provided, That fees collected pursuant to that 
     section of that Act and deposited in the ``TSCA Service Fee 
     Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal year 
     2019 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries and 
     expenses in this appropriation and shall remain available 
     until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated in this paragraph from the general fund for 
     fiscal year 2019 shall be reduced by the amount of 
     discretionary offsetting receipts received during fiscal year 
     2019, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 
     appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
     than $0: Provided further, That to the extent that amounts 
     realized from such receipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount 
     in excess of $5,000,000 shall be deposited in the ``TSCA 
     Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in 
     fiscal year 2019, shall be retained and used for necessary 
     salaries and expenses in this account, and shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided further, That of the funds 
     included in the first paragraph under this heading, the 
     Chemical Risk Review and Reduction program project shall be 
     allocated for this fiscal year, excluding the amount of any 
     fees appropriated, not less than the amount of appropriations 
     for that program project for fiscal year 2014.
                      Office of Inspector General
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $41,489,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020.
                        Buildings and Facilities
       For construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
     alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, 
     or for use by, the Environmental Protection Agency, 
     $34,467,000, to remain available until expended.
                     Hazardous Substance Superfund
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive 
     Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
     1980 (CERCLA), including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), 
     and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) $1,091,947,000, to remain 
     available until expended, consisting of such sums as are 
     available in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2018, as 
     authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and 
     Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and up to $1,091,947,000 
     as a payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund for purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of 
     SARA: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading 
     may be allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance with 
     section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, $8,718,000 shall be paid to 
     the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, and $17,398,000 shall be 
     paid to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020.
          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program
       For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground 
     storage tank cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of 
     the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $91,941,000, to remain
     available until expended, of which $66,572,000 shall be for 
     carrying out leaking underground storage tank cleanup 
     activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
     Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
     provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in 
     section 9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code: Provided, That 
     the Administrator is authorized to use appropriations made 
     available under this heading to implement section 9013 of the 
     Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide financial assistance to 
     federally recognized Indian tribes for the development and 
     implementation of programs to manage underground storage 
     tanks.
                       Inland Oil Spill Programs
       For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental 
     Protection Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution 
     Act of 1990, $18,209,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill 
     Liability trust fund, to remain available until expended.
                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants
       For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, 
     including capitalization grants for State revolving funds and 
     performance partnership grants, $3,575,041,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which--
       (1) $1,394,000,000 shall be for making capitalization 
     grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title 
     VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
     $864,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
     the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 
     of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided, That for fiscal 
     year 2019, to the extent there are sufficient eligible 
     project applications and projects are consistent with State 
     Intended Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the funds 
     made available under this title to each State for Clean Water 
     State Revolving Fund capitalization grants shall be used by 
     the State for projects to address green infrastructure, water 
     or energy efficiency improvements, or other environmentally 
     innovative activities: Provided further, That for fiscal year 
     2019, funds made available under this title to each State for 
     Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants 
     may, at the discretion of each State, be used for projects to 
     address green infrastructure, water or energy efficiency 
     improvements, or other environmentally innovative activities: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the limitation on 
     the amounts in a State water pollution control revolving fund 
     that may be used by a State to administer the fund shall not 
     apply to amounts included as principal in loans made by such 
     fund in fiscal year 2019 and prior years where such amounts 
     represent costs of administering the fund to the extent that 
     such amounts are or were deemed reasonable by the 
     Administrator, accounted for separately from other assets in 
     the fund, and used for eligible purposes of the fund, 
     including administration: Provided further, That for fiscal 
     year 2019, notwithstanding the provisions of subsections 
     (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 of the Federal Water 
     Pollution Control Act, grants made under title II of such Act 
     for American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth of the Northern 
     Marianas, the United States Virgin Islands, and the District 
     of Columbia may also be made for the purpose of providing 
     assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design activities, 
     or plans, specifications, and estimates for any proposed 
     project for the construction of treatment works; and (2) for 
     the construction, repair, or replacement of privately owned 
     treatment works serving one or more principal residences or 
     small commercial establishments: Provided further, That for 
     fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the provisions of such 
     subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section 
     518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds 
     reserved by the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) 
     of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act may also be used 
     to provide assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
     activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
     proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
     (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
     owned treatment works serving one or more principal 
     residences or small commercial establishments: Provided 
     further, That for fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding any 
     provision of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and 
     regulations issued pursuant thereof, up to a total of 
     $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by the Administrator for 
     grants under section 518(c) of such Act may also be used for 
     grants for training, technical assistance, and educational 
     programs relating to the operation and management of the 
     treatment works specified in section 518(c) of such Act: 
     Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, funds reserved 
     under section 518(c) of such Act shall be available for 
     grants only to Indian tribes, as defined in section 518(h) of 
     such Act and former Indian reservations in Oklahoma (as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Interior) and Native 
     Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203: Provided further, 
     That for fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the limitation on 
     amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
     appropriated, or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and 
     notwithstanding the limitation on amounts in section 1452(i) 
     of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a total of 2 percent of 
     the funds appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is greater, 
     for State Revolving Funds under such Acts may be reserved by 
     the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) and section 
     1452(i) of such Acts: Provided further, That for fiscal year 
     2019, notwithstanding the amounts specified in section 205(c) 
     of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to 1.5 percent 
     of the aggregate funds appropriated for the Clean Water State 
     Revolving Fund program under the Act less any sums reserved 
     under section 518(c) of the Act, may be reserved by the 
     Administrator for grants made under title II of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
     Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and United States 
     Virgin Islands: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, 
     notwithstanding the limitations on amounts specified in 
     section 1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 
     percent of the funds appropriated for the Drinking Water 
     State Revolving Fund programs under the Safe Drinking Water 
     Act may be reserved by the Administrator for grants made 
     under section 1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act: 
     Provided further, That 10 percent of the funds made available 
     under this title to each State for Clean Water State 
     Revolving Fund capitalization grants and 20 percent of the 
     funds made available under this title to each State for 
     Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants 
     shall be used by the State to provide additional subsidy to 
     eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, 
     negative interest loans, or grants (or any combination of 
     these), and shall be so used by the State only where such 
     funds are provided as initial financing for an eligible 
     recipient or to buy, refinance, or restructure the debt 
     obligations of eligible recipients only where such debt was 
     incurred on or after the date of enactment of this Act, or 
     where such debt was incurred prior to the date of enactment 
     of this Act if the State, with concurrence from the 
     Administrator, determines that such funds could be used to 
     help address a threat to public health from heightened 
     exposure to lead in drinking water or if a Federal or State 
     emergency declaration has been issued due to a threat to 
     public health from heightened exposure to lead in a municipal 
     drinking water supply before the date of enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That in a State in which such an 
     emergency declaration has been issued, the State may use more 
     than 20 percent of the funds made available under this title 
     to the State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
     capitalization grants to provide additional subsidy to 
     eligible recipients;
       (2) $15,000,000 shall be for architectural, engineering, 
     planning, design, construction and related activities in 
     connection with the construction of high priority water and 
     wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
     Border, after consultation with the appropriate border 
     commission: Provided, That no funds provided by this 
     appropriations Act to address the water, wastewater and other 
     critical infrastructure needs of the colonias in the United 
     States along the United States-Mexico border shall be made 
     available to a county or municipal government unless that 
     government has established an enforceable local ordinance, or 
     other zoning rule, which prevents in that jurisdiction the 
     development or construction of any additional colonia areas, 
     or the development within an existing colonia the 
     construction of any new home, business, or other structure 
     which lacks water, wastewater, or other necessary 
     infrastructure;
       (3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
     to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs 
     of rural and Alaska Native Villages: Provided, That of these 
     funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a match of 25 
     percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may be used 
     for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the State 
     of Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide 
     priority list established in conjunction with the Agency and 
     the U.S. Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, 
     waste disposal, and similar projects carried out by the State 
     of Alaska that are funded under section 221 of the Federal 
     Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et 
     seq.) which shall allocate not less than 25 percent of the 
     funds provided for projects in regional hub communities;
       (4) $80,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of the 
     Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
     Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
     agreements, and associated program support costs: Provided, 
     That not more than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to 
     carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be used for site 
     characterization, assessment, and remediation of facilities 
     described in section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA: Provided 
     further, That at least 10 percent shall be allocated for 
     assistance in persistent poverty counties: Provided further, 
     That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent 
     poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent 
     or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
     years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses 
     and the most recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates;
       (5) $50,000,000 shall be for grants under title VII, 
     subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
       (6) $50,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
     accordance with the terms and conditions in Senate report 
     115-276;
       (7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water quality 
     program authorized in section 5004(d)
     of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act 
     (Public Law 114-322); and
       (8) $1,093,041,000 shall be for grants, including 
     associated program support costs, to States, federally 
     recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and 
     air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single 
     media pollution prevention, control and abatement and related 
     activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions 
     set forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for 
     making grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for 
     particulate matter monitoring and data collection activities 
     subject to terms and conditions specified by the 
     Administrator, of which: $47,745,000 shall be for carrying 
     out section 128 of CERCLA; $9,646,000 shall be for 
     Environmental Information Exchange Network grants, including 
     associated program support costs; $1,498,000 shall be for 
     grants to States under section 2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste 
     Disposal Act, which shall be in addition to funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Leaking Underground Storage 
     Tank Trust Fund Program'' to carry out the provisions of the 
     Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) of the 
     Internal Revenue Code other than section 9003(h) of the Solid 
     Waste Disposal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds available for 
     grants under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act shall be for State participation in national- and 
     State-level statistical surveys of water resources and 
     enhancements to State monitoring programs; $27,000,000 shall 
     be for multipurpose grants, including interagency agreements.
      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account
       For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed 
     loans, as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and 
     Innovation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
     modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for 
     the principal amount of direct loans, including capitalized 
     interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
     interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to 
     exceed $610,000,000.
       In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to 
     sections 5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance 
     and Innovation Act of 2014 shall be deposited in this 
     account, to remain available until expended.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct and guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 
     5033 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act 
     of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020.
       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency
             (including transfers and rescission of funds)
       For fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 
     6305(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency, in carrying out the Agency's function to implement 
     directly Federal environmental programs required or 
     authorized by law in the absence of an acceptable tribal 
     program, may award cooperative agreements to federally 
     recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if 
     authorized by their member tribes, to assist the 
     Administrator in implementing Federal environmental programs 
     for Indian tribes required or authorized by law, except that 
     no such cooperative agreements may be awarded from funds 
     designated for State financial assistance agreements.
       The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
     authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration 
     service fees in accordance with section 33 of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended by 
     Public Law 112-177, the Pesticide Registration Improvement 
     Extension Act of 2012.
       Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 
     136w-8(d)(2)), the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency may assess fees under section 33 of FIFRA 
     (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 2019.
       The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to 
     $300,000,000 of the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes 
     Restoration Initiative under the heading ``Environmental 
     Programs and Management'' to the head of any Federal 
     department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
     carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes 
     Restoration Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality 
     Agreement programs, projects, or activities; to enter into an 
     interagency agreement with the head of such Federal 
     department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
     make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit 
     organizations, institutions, and individuals for planning, 
     research, monitoring, outreach, and implementation in 
     furtherance of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the 
     Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
       The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and 
     Management, Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund, and Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund 
     Program Accounts, are available for the construction, 
     alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
     facilities, provided that the cost does not exceed $150,000 
     per project.
       For fiscal year 2019, and notwithstanding section 518(f) of 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), 
     the Administrator is authorized to use the amounts 
     appropriated for any fiscal year under section 319 of the Act 
     to make grants to Indian tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) 
     and 518(e) of that Act.
       The Administrator is authorized to use the amounts 
     appropriated under the heading ``Environmental Programs and 
     Management'' for fiscal year 2019 to provide grants to 
     implement the Southeastern New England Watershed Restoration 
     Program.
       The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
     authorized to collect and obligate fees in accordance with 
     section 3024 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
     6939g) for fiscal year 2019.
       Of the unobligated balances available for the ``State and 
     Tribal Assistance Grants'' account, $109,078,000 are hereby 
     permanently rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be 
     rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress 
     as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
     Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 or from amounts that were made 
     available by subsection (a) of section 196 of the Continuing 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division C of Public Law 114-223), 
     as amended by the Further Continuing and Security Assistance 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 114-254).
       Using funds appropriated under this title, the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall 
     implement the recommendations described in the report of the 
     Office of Inspector General of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency entitled ``Management Weakness Delayed Response to 
     Flint Water Crisis'', numbered 18-P-0221, and dated July 19, 
     2018, to ensure clean and safe water compliance under the 
     Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.). If the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency does not 
     implement 1 or more recommendations required by the preceding 
     sentence, the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations and Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
     and the Committees on Appropriations and Energy and Commerce 
     of the House of Representatives a report explaining why the 
     Administrator did not implement the recommendation and 
     identifying specific actions the Administrator is 
     implementing to address the concerns raised in the report.
                               TITLE III
                            RELATED AGENCIES
                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
  office of the under secretary for natural resources and environment
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Natural Resources and Environment, $875,000: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to any agency in the 
     Natural Resources and Environment mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative 
     support staff for the office.
                             Forest Service
                     forest and rangeland research
       For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
     authorized by law, $300,000,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2022, of which not less than $500,000 shall be 
     made available for wood utilization research to develop woody 
     and agricultural biomass conversion of low-value woody 
     biomass using microwave-assisted liquefaction: Provided, That 
     of the funds provided, $77,000,000 is for the forest 
     inventory and analysis program: Provided further, That all 
     authorities for the use of funds, including the use of 
     contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, available to 
     execute the Forest and Rangeland Research appropriation, are 
     also available in the utilization of these funds for Fire 
     Science Research.
                       state and private forestry
       For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing 
     technical and financial assistance to States, territories, 
     possessions, and others, and for forest health management, 
     and conducting an international program as authorized, 
     $333,990,000, to remain available through September 30, 2022, 
     as authorized by law; of which $65,490,000 is to be derived 
     from the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be used for the 
     Forest Legacy Program, to remain available until expended.
                         national forest system
       For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
     provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and 
     utilization of the National Forest System, and for hazardous 
     fuels management on or adjacent to such lands, 
     $1,937,653,000, to remain available through September 30, 
     2022: Provided, That of the funds provided, $40,000,000 shall 
     be deposited in the Collaborative Forest Landscape 
     Restoration Fund for ecological restoration treatments as 
     authorized by 16 U.S.C. 7303(f): Provided further, That of 
     the funds provided, $368,000,000 shall be for forest 
     products: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
     $435,000,000 shall be for hazardous fuels management 
     activities, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 may be used to 
     make grants, using any authorities available to the Forest 
     Service under the ``State and Private Forestry'' 
     appropriation, for the purpose of creating incentives for 
     increased use of biomass from National Forest System lands: 
     Provided further, That $20,000,000 may be used by the 
     Secretary of Agriculture to enter into procurement contracts 
     or cooperative agreements or to issue grants for hazardous 
     fuels management activities, and for
     training or monitoring associated with such hazardous fuels 
     management activities on Federal land, or on non-Federal land 
     if the Secretary determines such activities benefit resources 
     on Federal land: Provided further, That funds made available 
     to implement the Community Forestry Restoration Act, Public 
     Law 106-393, title VI, shall be available for use on non-
     Federal lands in accordance with authorities made available 
     to the Forest Service under the ``State and Private 
     Forestry'' appropriations: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 33 of the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
     calculating a fee for grazing on a National Grassland, may 
     provide a credit of up to 50 percent of the calculated fee to 
     a Grazing Association or direct permittee for a conservation 
     practice approved by the Secretary in advance of the fiscal 
     year in which the cost of the conservation practice is 
     incurred. And, that the amount credited shall remain 
     available to the Grazing Association or the direct permittee, 
     as appropriate, in the fiscal year in which the credit is 
     made and each fiscal year thereafter for use on the project 
     for conservation practices approved by the Secretary.
                  capital improvement and maintenance
  
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
     provided for, $449,000,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2022, for construction, capital improvement, 
     maintenance and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
     and infrastructure; and for construction, reconstruction, 
     decommissioning of roads that are no longer needed, including 
     unauthorized roads that are not part of the transportation 
     system, and maintenance of forest roads and trails by the 
     Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 
     U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That funds becoming available 
     in fiscal year 2019 under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 
     501) shall be transferred to the General Fund of the Treasury 
     and shall not be available for transfer or obligation for any 
     other purpose unless the funds are appropriated.
                            land acquisition
                    (including rescission of funds)
       For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
     chapter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, including 
     administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
     waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory 
     authority applicable to the Forest Service, $74,099,000, to 
     be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to 
     remain available until expended.
       Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available for 
     Land Acquisition and derived from the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund, $16,028,000 is hereby permanently 
     rescinded from projects with cost savings or failed or 
     partially failed projects that had funds returned: Provided, 
     That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
     designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
     pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts
       For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of 
     the Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the 
     Toiyabe National Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San 
     Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland National Forests, 
     California; and the Ozark-St. Francis and Ouachita National 
     Forests, Arkansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be 
     derived from forest receipts.
            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges
       For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from 
     funds deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, 
     public school districts, or other public school authorities, 
     and for authorized expenditures from funds deposited by non-
     Federal parties pursuant to Land Sale and Exchange Acts, 
     pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a), to 
     remain available through September 30, 2021, (16 U.S.C. 516-
     617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589, 76-591; and 
     Public Law 78-310).
                         range betterment fund
       For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, 
     and improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the 
     prior fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on 
     lands in National Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant 
     to section 401(b)(1) of Public Law 94-579, to remain 
     available through September 30, 2022, of which not to exceed 
     6 percent shall be available for administrative expenses 
     associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, 
     protection, and improvements.
    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research
       For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $45,000, to 
     remain available through September 30, 2022, to be derived 
     from the fund established pursuant to the above Act.
        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses
       For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage 
     Federal lands in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII 
     of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 
     U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), $2,500,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2022.
                        wildland fire management
  
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression 
     activities on National Forest System lands, for emergency 
     wildland fire suppression on or adjacent to such lands or 
     other lands under fire protection agreement, and for 
     emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest 
     System lands and water, $3,229,620,000, to remain available 
     through September 30, 2022: Provided, That such funds 
     including unobligated balances under this heading, are 
     available for repayment of advances from other appropriations 
     accounts previously transferred for such purposes: Provided 
     further, That any unobligated funds appropriated in a 
     previous fiscal year for hazardous fuels management may be 
     transferred to the ``National Forest System'' account: 
     Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
     reimburse State and other cooperating entities for services 
     provided in response to wildfire and other emergencies or 
     disasters to the extent such reimbursements by the Forest 
     Service for non-fire emergencies are fully repaid by the 
     responsible emergency management agency: Provided further, 
     That funds provided shall be available for support to Federal 
     emergency response: Provided further, That the costs of 
     implementing any cooperative agreement between the Federal 
     Government and any non-Federal entity may be shared, as 
     mutually agreed on by the affected parties: Provided further, 
     That funds designated for wildfire suppression, shall be 
     assessed for cost pools on the same basis as such assessments 
     are calculated against other agency programs.
               administrative provisions--forest service
                     (including transfers of funds)
       Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal 
     year shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor 
     vehicles; acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess 
     sources, and hire of such vehicles; purchase, lease, 
     operation, maintenance, and acquisition of aircraft to 
     maintain the operable fleet for use in Forest Service 
     wildland fire programs and other Forest Service programs; 
     notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft 
     being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in 
     value used to offset the purchase price for the replacement 
     aircraft; (2) services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to 
     exceed $100,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) 
     purchase, erection, and alteration of buildings and other 
     public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) acquisition of land, 
     waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) 
     for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National 
     Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) 
     the cost of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and 
     (7) for debt collection contracts in accordance with 31 
     U.S.C. 3718(c).
       Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service 
     may be transferred to the Wildland Fire Management 
     appropriation for forest firefighting, emergency 
     rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands or waters 
     under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
     burning conditions upon the Secretary's notification of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations that all fire 
     suppression funds appropriated under the heading ``Wildland 
     Fire Management'' will be obligated within 30 days: Provided, 
     That all funds used pursuant to this paragraph must be 
     replenished by a supplemental appropriation which must be 
     requested as promptly as possible.
       Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appropriated to the 
     Forest Service shall be available for expenditure or transfer 
     to the Department of the Interior for wildland fire 
     management, hazardous fuels management, and State fire 
     assistance when such transfers would facilitate and expedite 
     wildland fire management programs and projects.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Forest 
     Service may transfer unobligated balances of discretionary 
     funds appropriated to the Forest Service by this Act to or 
     within the National Forest System Account, or reprogram funds 
     to be used for the purposes of hazardous fuels management and 
     urgent rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System 
     lands and water, such transferred funds shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2022: Provided, That none of 
     the funds transferred pursuant to this section shall be 
     available for obligation without written notification to and 
     the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
     both Houses of Congress: Provided further, That this section 
     does not apply to funds appropriated to the FLAME Wildfire 
     Suppression Reserve Fund or funds derived from the Land and 
     Water Conservation Fund.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for assistance to or through the Agency for International 
     Development in connection with forest and rangeland research, 
     technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
     and shall be available to support forestry and related 
     natural resource activities outside the United States and its 
     territories and possessions, including technical assistance, 
     education and training, and cooperation with U.S., private, 
     and international organizations. The Forest Service, acting 
     for the International Program, may sign direct funding 
     agreements with foreign governments and institutions as well 
     as other domestic agencies (including the U.S. Agency for 
     International Development, the Department of State, and the 
     Millennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. private sector firms, 
     institutions and organizations to provide technical 
     assistance and
     training programs overseas on forestry and rangeland 
     management.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for expenditure or transfer to the Department of the 
     Interior, Bureau of Land Management, for removal, 
     preparation, and adoption of excess wild horses and burros 
     from National Forest System lands, and for the performance of 
     cadastral surveys to designate the boundaries of such lands.
       None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in 
     this Act or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year 
     shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 
     702(b) of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 
     (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442 of Public Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 
     7772), or section 10417(b) of Public Law 107-171 (7 U.S.C. 
     8316(b)).
       None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
     reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the 
     reprogramming procedures contained in Senate report 115-276.
       Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest 
     Service shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of 
     the Department of Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 
     of funds available to the Forest Service shall be transferred 
     to the Department of Agriculture for Department Reimbursable 
     Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook charges. Nothing 
     in this paragraph shall prohibit or limit the use of 
     reimbursable agreements requested by the Forest Service in 
     order to obtain services from the Department of Agriculture's 
     National Information Technology Center and the Department of 
     Agriculture's International Technology Service.
       Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to 
     $5,000,000 shall be available for priority projects within 
     the scope of the approved budget, which shall be carried out 
     by the Youth Conservation Corps and shall be carried out 
     under the authority of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 
     U.S.C. 1721 et seq.).
       Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is 
     available to the Chief of the Forest Service for official 
     reception and representation expenses.
       Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-
     593, of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to 
     $3,000,000 may be advanced in a lump sum to the National 
     Forest Foundation to aid conservation partnership projects in 
     support of the Forest Service mission, without regard to when 
     the Foundation incurs expenses, for projects on or 
     benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
     Service programs: Provided, That of the Federal funds made 
     available to the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be 
     available for administrative expenses: Provided further, That 
     the Foundation shall obtain, by the end of the period of 
     Federal financial assistance, private contributions to match 
     funds made available by the Forest Service on at least a one-
     for-one basis: Provided further, That the Foundation may 
     transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-Federal 
     recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient 
     has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
       Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to 
     $3,000,000 of the funds available to the Forest Service may 
     be advanced to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a 
     lump sum to aid cost-share conservation projects, without 
     regard to when expenses are incurred, on or benefitting 
     National Forest System lands or related to Forest Service 
     programs: Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at 
     least a one-for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-
     recipients: Provided further, That the Foundation may 
     transfer Federal funds to a Federal or non-Federal recipient 
     for a project at the same rate that the recipient has 
     obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for interactions with and providing technical assistance to 
     rural communities and natural resource-based businesses for 
     sustainable rural development purposes.
       Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available 
     for payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge 
     National Scenic Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), 
     and section 16(a)(2) of Public Law 99-663.
       Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to 
     meet the non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of 
     the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
       The Forest Service shall not assess funds for the purpose 
     of performing fire, administrative, and other facilities 
     maintenance and decommissioning.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of any 
     appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service, not 
     to exceed $500,000 may be used to reimburse the Office of the 
     General Counsel (OGC), Department of Agriculture, for travel 
     and related expenses incurred as a result of OGC assistance 
     or participation requested by the Forest Service at meetings, 
     training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
     negotiations and similar matters unrelated to civil 
     litigation. Future budget justifications for both the Forest 
     Service and the Department of Agriculture should clearly 
     display the sums previously transferred and the sums 
     requested for transfer.
       An eligible individual who is employed in any project 
     funded under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 
     U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and administered by the Forest Service 
     shall be considered to be a Federal employee for purposes of 
     chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, through 
     the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, the Forest Service 
     shall report no later than 30 business days following the 
     close of each fiscal quarter all current and prior year 
     unobligated balances, by fiscal year, budget line item and 
     account, to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations.
                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
                         Indian Health Service
                         indian health services
       For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 
     1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act, the Indian Health Care Improvement 
     Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
     with respect to the Indian Health Service, $4,072,385,000, 
     together with payments received during the fiscal year 
     pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the Public Health 
     Service Act (42 U.S.C. 238(b), 238b), for services furnished 
     by the Indian Health Service: Provided, That funds made 
     available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
     contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or 
     compacts authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be 
     deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract 
     award and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or 
     tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
     further, That $2,000,000 shall be available for grants or 
     contracts with public or private institutions to provide 
     alcohol or drug treatment services to Indians, including 
     alcohol detoxification services: Provided further, That 
     $964,819,000 for Purchased/Referred Care, including 
     $53,000,000 for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency 
     Fund, shall remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That of the funds provided, up to $36,000,000 shall 
     remain available until expended for implementation of the 
     loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health 
     Care Improvement Act: Provided further, That of the funds 
     provided, $15,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
     to supplement funds available for operational costs at tribal 
     clinics operated under an Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act compact or contract where health 
     care is delivered in space acquired through a full service 
     lease, which is not eligible for maintenance and improvement 
     and equipment funds from the Indian Health Service, and 
     $58,000,000 shall be for costs related to or resulting from 
     accreditation emergencies, of which up to $4,000,000 may be 
     used to supplement amounts otherwise available for Purchased/
     Referred Care: Provided further, That the amounts collected 
     by the Federal Government as authorized by sections 104 and 
     108 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 
     1613a and 1616a) during the preceding fiscal year for breach 
     of contracts shall be deposited to the Fund authorized by 
     section 108A of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and shall remain 
     available until expended and, notwithstanding section 108A(c) 
     of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available 
     to make new awards under the loan repayment and scholarship 
     programs under sections 104 and 108 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 
     1613a and 1616a): Provided further, That the amounts made 
     available within this account for the Substance Abuse and 
     Suicide Prevention Program, for opioid Prevention, Treatment 
     and Recovery Services, for the Domestic Violence Prevention 
     Program, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the housing 
     subsidy authority for civilian employees, for aftercare pilot 
     programs at Youth Regional Treatment Centers, to improve 
     collections from public and private insurance at Indian 
     Health Service and tribally operated facilities, and for 
     accreditation emergencies shall be allocated at the 
     discretion of the Director of the Indian Health Service and 
     shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     funds provided in this Act may be used for annual contracts 
     and grants for which the performance period falls within 2 
     fiscal years, provided the total obligation is recorded in 
     the year the funds are appropriated: Provided further, That 
     the amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services under the authority of title IV of the Indian Health 
     Care Improvement Act shall remain available until expended 
     for the purpose of achieving compliance with the applicable 
     conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act, except for those related to the 
     planning, design, or construction of new facilities: Provided 
     further, That funding contained herein for scholarship 
     programs under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     amounts received by tribes and tribal organizations under 
     title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be 
     reported and accounted for and available to the receiving 
     tribes and tribal organizations until expended: Provided 
     further, That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from 
     the Indian Health Service, and from tribes and tribal 
     organizations operating health facilities pursuant to Public 
     Law 93-638, such individually identifiable health information 
     relating to disabled children as may be necessary for the 
     purpose of carrying out its functions under the Individuals 
     with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.): 
     Provided further, That the accreditation emergency funds may
     be used, as needed, to carry out activities typically funded 
     under the Indian Health Facilities account.
                         contract support costs
       For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for 
     contract support costs associated with Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act agreements with 
     the Indian Health Service for fiscal year 2019, such sums as 
     may be necessary: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, no amounts made available under this 
     heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
     account.
                        indian health facilities
       For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and 
     equipment of health and related auxiliary facilities, 
     including quarters for personnel; preparation of plans, 
     specifications, and drawings; acquisition of sites, purchase 
     and erection of modular buildings, and purchases of trailers; 
     and for provision of domestic and community sanitation 
     facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the Act 
     of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-
     Determination Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement 
     Act, and for expenses necessary to carry out such Acts and 
     titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act with 
     respect to environmental health and facilities support 
     activities of the Indian Health Service, $877,504,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
     appropriated for the planning, design, construction, 
     renovation or expansion of health facilities for the benefit 
     of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land on 
     which such facilities will be located: Provided further, That 
     not to exceed $500,000 may be used by the Indian Health 
     Service to purchase TRANSAM equipment from the Department of 
     Defense for distribution to the Indian Health Service and 
     tribal facilities: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     appropriated to the Indian Health Service may be used for 
     sanitation facilities construction for new homes funded with 
     grants by the housing programs of the United States 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $2,700,000 from this account and 
     the ``Indian Health Services'' account may be used by the 
     Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances for the Indian 
     Health Service and tribal facilities in conjunction with an 
     existing interagency agreement between the Indian Health 
     Service and the General Services Administration: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be placed in a 
     Demolition Fund, to remain available until expended, and be 
     used by the Indian Health Service for the demolition of 
     Federal buildings.
            administrative provisions--indian health service
       Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health 
     Service shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 3109 at rates not to exceed the per diem rate 
     equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior-level 
     positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; 
     purchase of reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of 
     modular buildings and renovation of existing facilities; 
     payments for telephone service in private residences in the 
     field, when authorized under regulations approved by the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services; uniforms or 
     allowances therefor as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and 
     for expenses of attendance at meetings that relate to the 
     functions or activities of the Indian Health Service: 
     Provided, That in accordance with the provisions of the 
     Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may 
     be extended health care at all tribally administered or 
     Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, and the 
     proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical 
     Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to 
     the account of the facility providing the service and shall 
     be available without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other law or regulation, 
     funds transferred from the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
     administered under Public Law 86-121, the Indian Sanitation 
     Facilities Act and Public Law 93-638: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this Act, 
     except those used for administrative and program direction 
     purposes, shall not be subject to limitations directed at 
     curtailing Federal travel and transportation: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
     Health Service in this Act shall be used for any assessments 
     or charges by the Department of Health and Human Services 
     unless identified in the budget justification and provided in 
     this Act, or approved by the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations through the reprogramming process: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds previously or herein made available to a tribe or 
     tribal organization through a contract, grant, or agreement 
     authorized by title I or title V of the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
     5321 et seq. (title I), 5381 et seq. (title V)), may be 
     deobligated and reobligated to a self-determination contract 
     under title I, or a self-governance agreement under title V 
     of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the 
     tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
     the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used to 
     implement the final rule published in the Federal Register on 
     September 16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human 
     Services, relating to the eligibility for the health care 
     services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health 
     Service has submitted a budget request reflecting the 
     increased costs associated with the proposed final rule, and 
     such request has been included in an appropriations Act and 
     enacted into law: Provided further, That with respect to 
     functions transferred by the Indian Health Service to tribes 
     or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is 
     authorized to provide goods and services to those entities on 
     a reimbursable basis, including payments in advance with 
     subsequent adjustment, and the reimbursements received 
     therefrom, along with the funds received from those entities 
     pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act, may be 
     credited to the same or subsequent appropriation account from 
     which the funds were originally derived, with such amounts to 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     reimbursements for training, technical assistance, or 
     services provided by the Indian Health Service will contain 
     total costs, including direct, administrative, and overhead 
     costs associated with the provision of goods, services, or 
     technical assistance: Provided further, That the Indian 
     Health Service may provide to civilian medical personnel 
     serving in hospitals operated by the Indian Health Service 
     housing allowances equivalent to those that would be provided 
     to members of the Commissioned Corps of the United States 
     Public Health Service serving in similar positions at such 
     hospitals: Provided further, That the appropriation structure 
     for the Indian Health Service may not be altered without 
     advance notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations.
                     National Institutes of Health
          national institute of environmental health sciences
       For necessary expenses for the National Institute of 
     Environmental Health Sciences in carrying out activities set 
     forth in section 311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
     9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the Superfund Amendments and 
     Reauthorization Act of 1986, $78,349,000.
            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
            toxic substances and environmental public health
       For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances 
     and Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set 
     forth in sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive 
     Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
     1980 (CERCLA) and section 3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal 
     Act, $74,691,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, in lieu of performing a health assessment 
     under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator of ATSDR 
     may conduct other appropriate health studies, evaluations, or 
     activities, including, without limitation, biomedical 
     testing, clinical evaluations, medical monitoring, and 
     referral to accredited healthcare providers: Provided 
     further, That in performing any such health assessment or 
     health study, evaluation, or activity, the Administrator of 
     ATSDR shall not be bound by the deadlines in section 
     104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
     ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles 
     pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during fiscal year 2019, 
     and existing profiles may be updated as necessary.
                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES
                   Executive Office of the President
  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality
       For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to 
     the Council on Environmental Quality and Office of 
     Environmental Quality pursuant to the National Environmental 
     Policy Act of 1969, the Environmental Quality Improvement Act 
     of 1970, and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, and not to 
     exceed $750 for official reception and representation 
     expenses, $3,005,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
     202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the 
     Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the 
     President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, 
     serving as chairman and exercising all powers, functions, and 
     duties of the Council.
             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant 
     to section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of 
     passenger vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, and for services authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
     the per diem equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
     senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, $11,000,000: 
     Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation 
     Board (Board) shall have not more than three career Senior 
     Executive Service positions: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual 
     appointed to the position of Inspector General of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of 
     such appointment, also hold the position of Inspector General 
     of the Board: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, the Inspector General of the
     Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of Inspector 
     General of EPA in performing the duties of the Inspector 
     General of the Board, and shall not appoint any individuals 
     to positions within the Board.
              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi 
     Indian Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, 
     $7,400,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That funds provided in this or any other appropriations Act 
     are to be used to relocate eligible individuals and groups 
     including evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands 
     residents, those in significantly substandard housing, and 
     all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
     preceding categories: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds contained in this or any other Act may be used by the 
     Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any 
     single Navajo or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, 
     was physically domiciled on the lands partitioned to the Hopi 
     Tribe unless a new or replacement home is provided for such 
     household: Provided further, That no relocatee will be 
     provided with more than one new or replacement home: Provided 
     further, That the Office shall relocate any certified 
     eligible relocatees who have selected and received an 
     approved homesite on the Navajo reservation or selected a 
     replacement residence off the Navajo reservation or on the 
     land acquired pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 93-531 (88 
     Stat. 1716).
    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development
                        payment to the institute
       For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska 
     Native Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by part A 
     of title XV of Public Law 99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4411 et seq.), 
     $9,960,000, which shall become available on July 1, 2019, and 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2020.
                        Smithsonian Institution
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
     authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, 
     science, and history; development, preservation, and 
     documentation of the National Collections; presentation of 
     public exhibits and performances; collection, preparation, 
     dissemination, and exchange of information and publications; 
     conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
     programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease 
     agreements of no more than 30 years, and protection of 
     buildings, facilities, and approaches; not to exceed $100,000 
     for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, 
     rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees, 
     $739,894,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed 
     $6,917,000 for the instrumentation program, collections 
     acquisition, exhibition reinstallation, and the repatriation 
     of skeletal remains program shall remain available until 
     expended; and including such funds as may be necessary to 
     support American overseas research centers: Provided, That 
     funds appropriated herein are available for advance payments 
     to independent contractors performing research services or 
     participating in official Smithsonian presentations.
                           facilities capital
       For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and 
     alteration of facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian 
     Institution, by contract or otherwise, as authorized by 
     section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), and 
     for construction, including necessary personnel, 
     $303,503,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     not to exceed $10,000 shall be for services as authorized by 
     5 U.S.C. 3109.
                        National Gallery of Art
                         salaries and expenses
       For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of 
     Art, the protection and care of the works of art therein, and 
     administrative expenses incident thereto, as authorized by 
     the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), as amended by the 
     public resolution of April 13, 1939 (Public Resolution 9, 
     Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as authorized by 
     5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
     treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, 
     and art associations or societies whose publications or 
     services are available to members only, or to members at a 
     price lower than to the general public; purchase, repair, and 
     cleaning of uniforms for guards, and uniforms, or allowances 
     therefor, for other employees as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 
     5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services for 
     protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
     alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, 
     and grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and 
     repair of works of art for the National Gallery of Art by 
     contracts made, without advertising, with individuals, firms, 
     or organizations at such rates or prices and under such terms 
     and conditions as the Gallery may deem proper, $144,202,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020, of which not to 
     exceed $3,620,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
     remain available until expended.
            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings
       For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and 
     renovation of buildings, grounds and facilities owned or 
     occupied by the National Gallery of Art, by contract or 
     otherwise, for operating lease agreements of no more than 10 
     years, with no extensions or renewals beyond the 10 years, 
     that address space needs created by the ongoing renovations 
     in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, $23,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts 
     awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, and 
     exterior repair or renovation of buildings of the National 
     Gallery of Art may be negotiated with selected contractors 
     and awarded on the basis of contractor qualifications as well 
     as price.
             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
                       operations and maintenance
       For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and 
     security of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing 
     Arts, $24,490,000.
                     capital repair and restoration
       For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration 
     of the existing features of the building and site of the John 
     F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $16,800,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
                         salaries and expenses
       For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of 
     the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) 
     including hire of passenger vehicles and services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $12,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020.
           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
                    National Endowment for the Arts
                       grants and administration
       For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation 
     on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 
     shall be available to the National Endowment for the Arts for 
     the support of projects and productions in the arts, 
     including arts education and public outreach activities, 
     through assistance to organizations and individuals pursuant 
     to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for 
     administering the functions of the Act, to remain available 
     until expended.
                 National Endowment for the Humanities
                       grants and administration
       For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation 
     on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 to 
     remain available until expended, of which $143,700,000 shall 
     be available for support of activities in the humanities, 
     pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and for administering the 
     functions of the Act; and $11,300,000 shall be available to 
     carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
     10(a)(2) of the Act, including $9,100,000 for the purposes of 
     section 7(h): Provided, That appropriations for carrying out 
     section 10(a)(2) shall be available for obligation only in 
     such amounts as may be equal to the total amounts of gifts, 
     bequests, devises of money, and other property accepted by 
     the chairman or by grantees of the National Endowment for the 
     Humanities under the provisions of sections 11(a)(2)(B) and 
     11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal years for 
     which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.
                       Administrative Provisions
       None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation 
     on the Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any 
     grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 
     18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
     to the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities may 
     be used for official reception and representation expenses: 
     Provided further, That funds from nonappropriated sources may 
     be used as necessary for official reception and 
     representation expenses: Provided further, That the 
     Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts may 
     approve grants of up to $10,000, if in the aggregate the 
     amount of such grants does not exceed 5 percent of the sums 
     appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year: Provided 
     further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to 
     the terms of an expressed and direct delegation of authority 
     from the National Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.
                        Commission of Fine Arts
                         salaries and expenses
       For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under chapter 
     91 of title 40, United States Code, $2,771,000: Provided, 
     That the Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the 
     full costs of its publications, and such fees shall be 
     credited to this account as an offsetting collection, to 
     remain available until expended without further 
     appropriation: Provided further, That the Commission is 
     authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, 
     artwork, drawings and artifacts, that pertain to the history 
     and design of the Nation's Capital or the history and 
     activities of the Commission of Fine Arts, for the purpose of 
     artistic display, study, or education: Provided further, That 
     one-tenth of one percent of the funds provided under this 
     heading may be used for official reception and representation 
     expenses.
  
               national capital arts and cultural affairs
       For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 
     (20 U.S.C. 956a), $2,750,000.
               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
     Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $6,440,000.
                  National Capital Planning Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning 
     Commission under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     $7,948,000: Provided, That one-quarter of 1 percent of the 
     funds provided under this heading may be used for official 
     reception and representational expenses associated with 
     hosting international visitors engaged in the planning and 
     physical development of world capitals.
                United States Holocaust Memorial Museum
                       holocaust memorial museum
       For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as 
     authorized by Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), 
     $59,500,000, of which $1,715,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2021, for the Museum's equipment replacement 
     program; and of which $4,000,000 for the Museum's repair and 
     rehabilitation program and $1,500,000 for the Museum's 
     outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
     expended.
                Dwight d. Eisenhower Memorial Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
     Commission, $1,800,000, to remain available until expended.
                 women's suffrage centennial commission
       For necessary expenses for the Women's Suffrage Centennial 
     Commission, as authorized by the Women's Suffrage Centennial 
     Commission Act (section 431(a)(3) of division G of Public Law 
     115-31), $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.
                   world war i centennial commission
                         salaries and expenses
       Notwithstanding section 9 of the World War I Centennial 
     Commission Act, as authorized by the World War I Centennial 
     Commission Act (Public Law 112-272) and the Carl Levin and 
     Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), for necessary 
     expenses of the World War I Centennial Commission, 
     $7,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That in addition to the authority provided by section 6(g) of 
     such Act, the World War I Commission may accept money, in-
     kind personnel services, contractual support, or any 
     appropriate support from any executive branch agency for 
     activities of the Commission.
                                TITLE IV
                           GENERAL PROVISIONS
                     (including transfers of funds)
                      restriction on use of funds
       Sec. 401. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be available for any activity or the publication or 
     distribution of literature that in any way tends to promote 
     public support or opposition to any legislative proposal on 
     which Congressional action is not complete other than to 
     communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 
     1913.
                      obligation of appropriations
       Sec. 402. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
                 disclosure of administrative expenses
       Sec. 403. The amount and basis of estimated overhead 
     charges, deductions, reserves or holdbacks, including working 
     capital fund and cost pool charges, from programs, projects, 
     activities and subactivities to support government-wide, 
     departmental, agency, or bureau administrative functions or 
     headquarters, regional, or central operations shall be 
     presented in annual budget justifications and subject to 
     approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates 
     shall be presented to the Committees on Appropriations for 
     approval.
                          mining applications
       Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act 
     shall be obligated or expended to accept or process 
     applications for a patent for any mining or mill site claim 
     located under the general mining laws.
       (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
     Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim 
     concerned (1) a patent application was filed with the 
     Secretary on or before September 30, 1994; and (2) all 
     requirements established under sections 2325 and 2326 of the 
     Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode 
     claims, sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised 
     Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and 
     section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill 
     site claims, as the case may be, were fully complied with by 
     the applicant by that date.
       (c) Report.--On September 30, 2020, the Secretary of the 
     Interior shall file with the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
     House and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
     the Senate a report on actions taken by the Department under 
     the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of the 
     Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208).
       (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent 
     applications in a timely and responsible manner, upon the 
     request of a patent applicant, the Secretary of the Interior 
     shall allow the applicant to fund a qualified third-party 
     contractor to be selected by the Director of the Bureau of 
     Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of the 
     mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application 
     as set forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management 
     shall have the sole responsibility to choose and pay the 
     third-party contractor in accordance with the standard 
     procedures employed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
     retention of third-party contractors.
             contract support costs, prior year limitation
       Sec. 405. Sections 405 and 406 of division F of the 
     Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect in fiscal year 
     2019.
          contract support costs, fiscal year 2019 limitation
       Sec. 406. Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 2019 
     under the headings ``Department of Health and Human Services, 
     Indian Health Service, Contract Support Costs'' and 
     ``Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs and 
     Bureau of Indian Education, Contract Support Costs'' are the 
     only amounts available for contract support costs arising out 
     of self-determination or self-governance contracts, grants, 
     compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2019 
     with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Indian Health 
     Service: Provided, That such amounts provided by this Act are 
     not available for payment of claims for contract support 
     costs for prior years, or for repayments of payments for 
     settlements or judgments awarding contract support costs for 
     prior years.
                        forest management plans
       Sec. 407. The Secretary of Agriculture shall not be 
     considered to be in violation of subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of 
     the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 
     1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) solely because more than 15 
     years have passed without revision of the plan for a unit of 
     the National Forest System. Nothing in this section exempts 
     the Secretary from any other requirement of the Forest and 
     Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et 
     seq.) or any other law: Provided, That if the Secretary is 
     not acting expeditiously and in good faith, within the 
     funding available, to revise a plan for a unit of the 
     National Forest System, this section shall be void with 
     respect to such plan and a court of proper jurisdiction may 
     order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.
                 prohibition within national monuments
       Sec. 408. No funds provided in this Act may be expended to 
     conduct preleasing, leasing and related activities under 
     either the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the 
     Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) 
     within the boundaries of a National Monument established 
     pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 et seq.) 
     as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001, except where 
     such activities are allowed under the Presidential 
     proclamation establishing such monument.
                         limitation on takings
       Sec. 409. Unless otherwise provided herein, no funds 
     appropriated in this Act for the acquisition of lands or 
     interests in lands may be expended for the filing of 
     declarations of taking or complaints in condemnation without 
     the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That this provision shall not apply 
     to funds appropriated to implement the Everglades National 
     Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds 
     appropriated for Federal assistance to the State of Florida 
     to acquire lands for Everglades restoration purposes.
                        timber sale requirements
       Sec. 410. No timber sale in Alaska's Region 10 shall be 
     advertised if the indicated rate is deficit (defined as the 
     value of the timber is not sufficient to cover all logging 
     and stumpage costs and provide a normal profit and risk 
     allowance under the Forest Service's appraisal process) when 
     appraised using a residual value appraisal. The western red 
     cedar timber from those sales which is surplus to the needs 
     of the domestic processors in Alaska, shall be made available 
     to domestic processors in the contiguous 48 United States at 
     prevailing domestic prices. All additional western red cedar 
     volume not sold to Alaska or contiguous 48 United States 
     domestic processors may be exported to foreign markets at the 
     election of the timber sale holder. All Alaska yellow cedar 
     may be sold at prevailing export prices at the election of 
     the timber sale holder.
                    prohibition on no-bid contracts
       Sec. 411. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be 
     used to enter into any Federal contract unless such contract 
     is entered into in accordance with the requirements of 
     Chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, or Chapter 137 of 
     title 10, United States Code, and the Federal Acquisition 
     Regulation, unless--
       (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
     entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
     formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
     tribes; or
       (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
     Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-
     638, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
     specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
     defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
       (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of 
     enactment of this Act.
                           posting of reports
       Sec. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
     this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on 
     the public website of that agency any report required to be 
     submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the 
     determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve 
     the national interest.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
       (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
     security; or
       (2) the report contains proprietary information.
       (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
     only after such report has been made available to the 
     requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less 
     than 45 days.
            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines
       Sec. 413. Of the funds provided to the National Endowment 
     for the Arts--
       (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
     individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
     literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
     American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
       (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
     that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
     to a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be 
     used to make a grant to any other organization or individual 
     to conduct activity independent of the direct grant 
     recipient. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments 
     made in exchange for goods and services.
       (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
     unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
     season, including identified programs or projects.
           national endowment for the arts program priorities
       Sec. 414. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
     assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the 
     Humanities Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this 
     Act, the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts 
     shall ensure that priority is given to providing services or 
     awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
     workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
       (b) In this section:
       (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
     of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
     historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
     programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income 
     below the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
       (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
     defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
     annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
     Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
     family of the size involved.
       (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance 
     under the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act 
     of 1965 with funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson 
     of the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that 
     priority is given to providing services or awarding financial 
     assistance for projects, productions, workshops, or programs 
     that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
     understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
       (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out 
     section 5 of the National Foundation on the Arts and 
     Humanities Act of 1965--
       (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
     projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
     national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
     States;
       (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
     percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
     excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
       (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
     and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each 
     grant category under section 5 of such Act; and
       (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
     improve and support community-based music performance and 
     education.
                  status of balances of appropriations
       Sec. 415. The Department of the Interior, the Environmental 
     Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the Indian Health 
     Service shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the 
     status of balances of appropriations including all 
     uncommitted, committed, and unobligated funds in each program 
     and activity.
                      prohibition on use of funds
       Sec. 416. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available in this Act or any other Act may 
     be used to promulgate or implement any regulation requiring 
     the issuance of permits under title V of the Clean Air Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.) for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, 
     water vapor, or methane emissions resulting from biological 
     processes associated with livestock production.
                 greenhouse gas reporting restrictions
       Sec. 417. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available in this or any other Act may be 
     used to implement any provision in a rule, if that provision 
     requires mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from 
     manure management systems.
                          funding prohibition
       Sec. 418. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to regulate the lead content of 
     ammunition, ammunition components, or fishing tackle under 
     the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or 
     any other law.
                        contracting authorities
       Sec. 419. Section 412 of Division E of Public Law 112-74 is 
     amended by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting 
     ``fiscal year 2020''.
                      extension of grazing permits
       Sec. 420. The terms and conditions of section 325 of Public 
     Law 108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing permits 
     issued by the Forest Service on any lands not subject to 
     administration under section 402 of the Federal Lands Policy 
     and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), shall remain in effect 
     for fiscal year 2019.
                          funding prohibition
       Sec. 421. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network is designed to block access to 
     pornography websites.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
        forest service facility realignment and enhancement act
       Sec. 422. Section 503(f) of the Forest Service Facility 
     Realignment and Enhancement Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; 
     Public Law 109-54) is amended by striking ``2018'' and 
     inserting ``2019''.
                     use of american iron and steel
       Sec. 423. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a 
     State water pollution control revolving fund as authorized by 
     section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-
     12) shall be used for a project for the construction, 
     alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water system 
     or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel products 
     used in the project are produced in the United States.
       (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel'' products 
     means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: 
     lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other 
     municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and 
     restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast 
     concrete, and construction materials.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category 
     of cases in which the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Administrator'') finds that--
       (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
     public interest;
       (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
     States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and 
     of a satisfactory quality; or
       (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
     United States will increase the cost of the overall project 
     by more than 25 percent.
       (c) If the Administrator receives a request for a waiver 
     under this section, the Administrator shall make available to 
     the public on an informal basis a copy of the request and 
     information available to the Administrator concerning the 
     request, and shall allow for informal public input on the 
     request for at least 15 days prior to making a finding based 
     on the request. The Administrator shall make the request and 
     accompanying information available by electronic means, 
     including on the official public Internet Web site of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency.
       (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with United States obligations under international 
     agreements.
       (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the 
     funds appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking 
     Water State Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions 
     described in subsection (a)(1) for management and oversight 
     of the requirements of this section.
                             midway island
       Sec. 424. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to destroy any buildings or structures on Midway 
     Island that have been recommended by the United States Navy 
     for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places (54 
     U.S.C. 302101).
                 john f. kennedy center reauthorization
       Sec. 425. Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy Center Act (20 
     U.S.C. 76r) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) 
     and inserting the following:
       ``(a) Maintenance, Repair, and Security.--There is 
     authorized to be appropriated
     to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H), $24,490,000 for 
     fiscal year 2019.
       ``(b) Capital Projects.--There is authorized to be 
     appropriated to the Board to carry out subparagraphs (F) and 
     (G) of section 4(a)(1), $16,800,000 for fiscal year 2019.''.
local cooperator training agreements and transfers of excess equipment 
                       and supplies for wildfires
       Sec. 426. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to 
     enter into grants and cooperative agreements with volunteer 
     fire departments, rural fire departments, rangeland fire 
     protection associations, and similar organizations to provide 
     for wildland fire training and equipment, including supplies 
     and communication devices. Notwithstanding 121(c) of title 
     40, United States Code, or section 521 of title 40, United 
     States Code, the Secretary is further authorized to transfer 
     title to excess Department of the Interior firefighting 
     equipment no longer needed to carry out the functions of the 
     Department's wildland fire management program to such 
     organizations.
                             infrastructure
       Sec. 427. (a) For an additional amount for ``Environmental 
     Protection Agency--Hazardous Substance Superfund'', 
     $43,000,000, of which $38,000,000 shall be for the Superfund 
     Remedial program and $5,000,000 shall be for the Superfund 
     Emergency Response and Removal program, to remain available 
     until expended, consisting of such sums as are available in 
     the Trust Fund on September 30, 2018, as authorized by 
     section 517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and 
     Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and up to $43,000,000 as a 
     payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance 
     Superfund for purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of 
     SARA.
       (b) For an additional amount for ``Environmental Protection 
     Agency--State and Tribal Assistance Grants,'' for 
     environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, 
     including capitalization grants for State revolving funds and 
     performance partnership grants, $670,000,000 to remain 
     available until expended, of which--
       (1) $300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants 
     for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of 
     the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
     $300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
     the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 
     of the Safe Drinking Water Act;
       (2) $30,000,000 shall be for grants for small and 
     disadvantaged communities authorized in section 2104 of the 
     Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public 
     Law 114-322);
       (3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants for lead testing in 
     school and child care program drinking water authorized in 
     section 2107 of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the 
     Nation Act (Public Law 114-322);
       (4) $15,000,000 shall be for grants for reducing lead in 
     drinking water authorized in section 2105 of the Water 
     Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public Law 
     114-322).
       (c) For an additional amount for ``Environmental Protection 
     Agency--Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program 
     Account'', $53,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     for the cost of direct loans, for the cost of guaranteed 
     loans, and for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct and guaranteed loan programs, of which $3,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, may be used for 
     such administrative expenses: Provided, That these additional 
     funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
     principal amount of direct loans, including capitalized 
     interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
     interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to 
     exceed $6,100,000,000.
                  policies relating to biomass energy
       Sec. 428. To support the key role that forests in the 
     United States can play in addressing the energy needs of the 
     United States, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of 
     Agriculture, and the Administrator of the Environmental 
     Protection Agency shall, consistent with their missions, 
     jointly--
       (1) ensure that Federal policy relating to forest 
     bioenergy--
       (A) is consistent across all Federal departments and 
     agencies; and
       (B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of forest 
     biomass for energy, conservation, and responsible forest 
     management; and
       (2) establish clear and simple policies for the use of 
     forest biomass as an energy solution, including policies 
     that--
       (A) reflect the carbon-neutrality of forest bioenergy and 
     recognize biomass as a renewable energy source, provided the 
     use of forest biomass for energy production does not cause 
     conversion of forests to non-forest use;
       (B) encourage private investment throughout the forest 
     biomass supply chain, including in--
       (i) working forests;
       (ii) harvesting operations;
       (iii) forest improvement operations;
       (iv) forest bioenergy production;
       (v) wood products manufacturing; or
       (vi) paper manufacturing;
       (C) encourage forest management to improve forest health; 
     and
       (D) recognize State initiatives to produce and use forest 
     biomass.
                      clarification of exemptions
       Sec. 429. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to require a permit for the discharge of dredged or 
     fill material under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
     (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) for the activities identified in 
     subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 
     U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A), (C)).
                       small remote incinerators
       Sec. 430. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to implement or enforce the regulation issued on 
     March 21, 2011 at 40 CFR part 60 subparts CCCC and DDDD with 
     respect to units in the State of Alaska that are defined as 
     ``small, remote incinerator'' units in those regulations and, 
     until a subsequent regulation is issued, the Administrator 
     shall implement the law and regulations in effect prior to 
     such date.
                            recreation fees
       Sec. 431. Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation 
     Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) shall be applied by 
     substituting ``October 1, 2020'' for ``September 30, 2019''.
       Sec. 432. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under this Act may be used by the Department 
     of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the 
     Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, or the Smithsonian 
     Institution to acquire telecommunications equipment produced 
     by Huawei Technologies Company, ZTE Corporation or a high-
     impact or moderate-impact information system, as defined for 
     security categorization in the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal Information 
     Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for Security 
     Categorization of Federal Information and Information 
     Systems'' unless the agency has--
       (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
     systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
     acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
     information systems within the Federal Government;
       (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
     awardee against available and relevant threat information 
     provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
     appropriate agencies; and
       (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted 
     an assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
     associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
     risk associated with such system being produced, 
     manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities identified 
     by the United States Government as posing a cyber threat, 
     including but not limited to, those that may be owned, 
     directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of China, 
     the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's 
     Republic of Korea, or the Russian Federation.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact 
     or moderate impact information system reviewed and assessed 
     under subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity 
     described in subsection (a) has--
       (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
     risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
     identified risks;
       (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation, that the acquisition of such system 
     is in the vital national security interest of the United 
     States; and
       (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     in a manner that identifies the system intended for 
     acquisition and a detailed description of the mitigation 
     strategies identified in (1), provided that such report may 
     include a classified annex as necessary.
       Sec. 433. Within available funds, not later than 180 days 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
     General of the United States shall issue a report on efforts 
     by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
     Environmental Protection Agency relating to the removal of 
     lead-based paint and other hazardous materials, which shall 
     include--
       (1) a description of direct removal efforts by the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
     Environmental Protection Agency;
       (2) a description of education provided by the Department 
     of Housing and Urban Development and the Environmental 
     Protection Agency to other Federal agencies, local 
     governments and communities, recipients of grants made by 
     either entity, and the general public relating to the removal 
     of lead-based paint and other hazardous materials;
       (3) a description of assistance received from other Federal 
     agencies relating to the removal of lead-based paint and 
     other hazardous materials; and
       (4) any best practices developed or provided by the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
     Environmental Protection Agency relating to the removal of 
     lead-based paint and other hazardous materials.
       Sec. 434. (a) Within available funds for the National 
     Forest System, the Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct an 
     inventory and evaluation of certain land, as generally 
     depicted on the map entitled ``Flatside Wilderness Adjacent 
     Inventory Areas'' and dated November 30, 2017, to determine 
     the suitability of that land for inclusion in the National 
     Wilderness Preservation System.
       (b) The Chief of the Forest Service shall submit to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, 
     Appropriations, and Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate the results of the inventory and evaluation required 
     under subsection (a).
  
         addressing pediatric cancer rates in the united states
       Sec. 435. (a) Report Identifying Geographic Variation of 
     Types of Pediatric Cancer.--Using funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Toxic Substances and Environmental Health'' for 
     the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services, not later than 180 
     days after the date of enactment of this Act, shall submit to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
     the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives, a report that provides details on 
     the geographic variation in pediatric cancer incidence in the 
     United States, including--
       (1) the types of pediatric cancer within each of the 10 
     States with the highest age-adjusted incidence rate of cancer 
     among persons aged 20 years or younger;
       (2) geographic concentrations of types and prevalence of 
     pediatric cancers within each such State, in accordance with 
     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines; and
       (3) an update on current activities related to pediatric 
     cancer, including with respect to carrying out section 399V-6 
     of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g-17).
       (b) Support for States With High Incidence of Pediatric 
     Cancer.--Using funds appropriated under the heading ``Toxic 
     Substances and Environmental Public Health'' for the Agency 
     for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services may conduct public outreach, in 
     collaboration with State departments of health, particularly 
     in the 10 States with the highest age-adjusted incidence rate 
     of cancer among persons aged 20 years or younger, to improve 
     awareness by residents, clinicians, and others, as 
     appropriate, of possible contributing factors to pediatric 
     cancer, including environmental exposures, in a manner that 
     is complementary of, and does not conflict with, ongoing 
     pediatric cancer-related activities supported by the 
     Department of Health and Human Services.
       (c) Privacy.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
     shall ensure that all information with respect to patients 
     that is contained in the reports under this section is de-
     identified and protects personal privacy of such patients in 
     accordance with applicable Federal and State privacy law.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of the 
     Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
     Act, 2019''.
 DIVISION B--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2019
        That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for financial 
     services and general government for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, namely:
                                TITLE I
                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                          Departmental Offices
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices 
     including operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building 
     and Freedman's Bank Building; hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
     purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real 
     properties leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the 
     performance of official business; executive direction program 
     activities; international affairs and economic policy 
     activities; domestic finance and tax policy activities, 
     including technical assistance to Puerto Rico; and Treasury-
     wide management policies and programs activities, 
     $208,751,000: Provided, That of the amount appropriated under 
     this heading--
       (1) not to exceed $700,000 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses, of which necessary amounts shall be 
     available for expenses to support activities of the Financial 
     Action Task Force, and not to exceed $350,000 shall be for 
     other official reception and representation expenses;
       (2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
     a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
     direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
     accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
       (3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020, for--
       (A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and 
     Internal Control Program;
       (B) information technology modernization requirements;
       (C) the audit, oversight, and administration of the Gulf 
     Coast Restoration Trust Fund;
       (D) the development and implementation of programs within 
     the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection and 
     Compliance Policy, including entering into cooperative 
     agreements;
       (E) operations and maintenance of facilities; and
       (F) international operations.
             office of terrorism and financial intelligence
                         salaries and expenses
       For the necessary expenses of the Office of Terrorism and 
     Financial Intelligence to safeguard the financial system 
     against illicit use and to combat rogue nations, terrorist 
     facilitators, weapons of mass destruction proliferators, 
     money launderers, drug kingpins, and other national security 
     threats, $159,000,000: Provided, That of the amount 
     appropriated under this heading: (1) up to $33,500,000 may be 
     transferred to the Departmental Offices Salaries and Expenses 
     appropriation and shall be available for administrative 
     support to the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
     Intelligence; and (2) up to $10,000,000 shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided further, That of 
     the amount appropriated under this heading, not less than 
     $1,000,000 shall be used to support and augment new and 
     ongoing investigations into the illicit trade of synthetic 
     opioids, particularly fentanyl and its analogues, originating 
     from the People's Republic of China: Provided further, That 
     not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with 
     the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration and 
     the heads of other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall 
     submit a comprehensive report (which shall be submitted in 
     unclassified form, but may include a classified annex) 
     summarizing efforts by actors in the People's Republic of 
     China to subvert United States laws and to supply illicit 
     synthetic opioids to persons in the United States, including 
     up-to-date estimates of the scale of illicit synthetic 
     opioids flows from the People's Republic of China, to the 
     Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Homeland 
     Security, and the Committee on Financial Services of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations, 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, 
     and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of 
     the Senate.
                   cybersecurity enhancement account
       For salaries and expenses for enhanced cybersecurity for 
     systems operated by the Department of the Treasury, 
     $25,208,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
     Provided, That such funds shall supplement and not supplant 
     any other amounts made available to the Treasury offices and 
     bureaus for cybersecurity: Provided further, That the Chief 
     Information Officer of the individual offices and bureaus 
     shall submit a spend plan for each investment to the Treasury 
     Chief Information Officer for approval: Provided further, 
     That the submitted spend plan shall be reviewed and approved 
     by the Treasury Chief Information Officer prior to the 
     obligation of funds under this heading: Provided further, 
     That of the total amount made available under this heading 
     $1,000,000 shall be available for administrative expenses for 
     the Treasury Chief Information Officer to provide oversight 
     of the investments made under this heading: Provided further, 
     That such funds shall supplement and not supplant any other 
     amounts made available to the Treasury Chief Information 
     Officer.
        department-wide systems and capital investments programs
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For development and acquisition of automatic data 
     processing equipment, software, and services and for repairs 
     and renovations to buildings owned by the Department of the 
     Treasury, $4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2021: Provided, That these funds shall be transferred to 
     accounts and in amounts as necessary to satisfy the 
     requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
     organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority 
     shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
     in this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading shall be used to support or 
     supplement ``Internal Revenue Service, Operations Support'' 
     or ``Internal Revenue Service, Business Systems 
     Modernization''.
                      office of inspector general
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $37,044,000, including hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available 
     for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
     allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector 
     General of the Treasury; of which up to $2,800,000 to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, shall be for audits and 
     investigations conducted pursuant to section 1608 of the 
     Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist 
     Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States 
     Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which not to exceed 
     $1,000 shall be available for official reception and 
     representation expenses.
           treasury inspector general for tax administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General 
     for Tax Administration in carrying out the Inspector General 
     Act of 1978, as amended, including purchase and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
     determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; 
     $169,634,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2020; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 
     shall be available for official travel expenses; of which not 
     to exceed $500,000 shall be available for unforeseen 
     emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
     expended under the direction of the Inspector General for Tax 
     Administration; and of which not to exceed $1,500 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.
  
    special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special 
     Inspector General in carrying out the provisions of the 
     Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
     343), $17,500,000.
                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
     Network, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel 
     and training expenses of non-Federal and foreign government 
     personnel to attend meetings and training concerned with 
     domestic and foreign financial intelligence activities, law 
     enforcement, and financial regulation; services authorized by 
     5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception 
     and representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal 
     law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
     $117,800,000, of which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2021.
                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the 
     Fiscal Service, $338,280,000; of which not to exceed 
     $4,210,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, is 
     for information systems modernization initiatives; and of 
     which $5,000 shall be available for official reception and 
     representation expenses.
       In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill 
     Liability Trust Fund to reimburse administrative and 
     personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as 
     authorized by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.
                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles, $111,439,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 
     for official reception and representation expenses; not to 
     exceed $50,000 for cooperative research and development 
     programs for laboratory services; and provision of laboratory 
     assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
     reimbursement: Provided, That of the amount appropriated 
     under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the costs of 
     accelerating the processing of formula and label 
     applications: Provided further, That of the amount 
     appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020.
                           United States Mint
               united states mint public enterprise fund
       Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, 
     the United States Mint is provided funding through the United 
     States Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with 
     the production of circulating coins, numismatic coins, and 
     protective services, including both operating expenses and 
     capital investments: Provided, That the aggregate amount of 
     new liabilities and obligations incurred during fiscal year 
     2019 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
     protective service capital investments of the United States 
     Mint shall not exceed $30,000,000.
   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account
       To carry out the Riegle Community Development and 
     Regulatory Improvements Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of 
     Public Law 103-325), including services authorized by section 
     3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
     individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the 
     rate for EX-3, $250,000,000. Of the amount appropriated under 
     this heading--
       (1) not less than $182,000,000, notwithstanding section 
     108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard 
     to Small and/or Emerging Community Development Financial 
     Institutions Assistance awards, is available until September 
     30, 2020, for financial assistance and technical assistance 
     under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 108(a)(1), 
     respectively, of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) 
     and (B)), of which up to $2,680,000 may be used for the cost 
     of direct loans: Provided, That the cost of direct and 
     guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
     shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
     available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
     amount of direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000;
       (2) not less than $16,000,000, notwithstanding section 
     108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is 
     available until September 30, 2020, for financial assistance, 
     technical assistance, training, and outreach programs 
     designed to benefit Native American, Native Hawaiian, and 
     Alaska Native communities and provided primarily through 
     qualified community development lender organizations with 
     experience and expertise in community development banking and 
     lending in Indian country, Native American organizations, 
     tribes and tribal organizations, and other suitable 
     providers;
       (3) not less than $25,000,000 is available until September 
     30, 2020, for the Bank Enterprise Award program;
       (4) up to $27,000,000 is available until September 30, 
     2019, for administrative expenses, including administration 
     of CDFI fund programs and the New Markets Tax Credit Program, 
     of which not less than $1,000,000 is for development of tools 
     to better assess and inform CDFI investment performance, and 
     up to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out 
     the direct loan program; and
       (5) during fiscal year 2019, none of the funds available 
     under this heading are available for the cost, as defined in 
     section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
     commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under section 114A 
     of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
     Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a): Provided, That 
     commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under such section 
     114A shall not exceed $500,000,000: Provided further, That 
     such section 114A shall remain in effect until December 31, 
     2019: Provided further, That of the funds awarded under this 
     heading, not less than 10 percent shall be used for awards 
     that support investments that serve populations living in 
     persistent poverty counties: Provided further, That for the 
     purposes of this section, the term ``persistent poverty 
     counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or more 
     of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, 
     as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the 
     2011-2015 5-year data series available from the American 
     Community Survey of the Census Bureau.
                        Internal Revenue Service
                           taxpayer services
       For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to 
     provide taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance 
     and education, filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy 
     services, and other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
     $2,506,554,000, of which not less than $9,890,000 shall be 
     for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of which not 
     less than $12,000,000 shall be available for low-income 
     taxpayer clinic grants, of which not less than $20,000,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020, shall be 
     available for a Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance 
     matching grants program for tax return preparation 
     assistance, and of which not less than $206,000,000 shall be 
     available for operating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate 
     Service: Provided, That of the amounts made available for the 
     Taxpayer Advocate Service, not less than $5,500,000 shall be 
     for identity theft and refund fraud casework.
                              enforcement
       For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of 
     the Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed 
     taxes, to provide legal and litigation support, to conduct 
     criminal investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related 
     to violations of internal revenue laws and other financial 
     crimes, to purchase and hire passenger motor vehicles (31 
     U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other services as authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
     Commissioner, $4,860,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $50,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     and of which not less than $60,257,000 shall be for the 
     Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement program.
                           operations support
       For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to 
     support taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including 
     rent payments; facilities services; printing; postage; 
     physical security; headquarters and other IRS-wide 
     administration activities; research and statistics of income; 
     telecommunications; information technology development, 
     enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire 
     of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the 
     operations of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; 
     and other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
     rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
     $3,709,000,000, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2020; of which not to 
     exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     acquisition of equipment and construction, repair and 
     renovation of facilities; of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2021, for 
     research; of which not to exceed $20,000 shall be for 
     official reception and representation expenses: Provided, 
     That not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, 
     the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate and the Comptroller General of the United 
     States detailing the cost and schedule performance for its 
     major information technology investments, including the 
     purpose and life-cycle stages of the investments; the reasons 
     for any cost and schedule variances; the risks of such 
     investments and strategies the Internal Revenue Service is 
     using to mitigate such risks; and the expected developmental 
     milestones to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the 
     next quarter: Provided further, That the Internal Revenue 
     Service shall include, in its budget justification for fiscal 
     year 2020, a summary of cost and schedule performance 
     information for its major information technology systems.
                     business systems modernization
       For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's 
     business systems modernization program, $110,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2021, for the capital 
     asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
     including management and related contractual costs of said 
     acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue
     Service labor costs, and contractual costs associated with 
     operations authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not 
     later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the 
     Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate and the Comptroller General of the United 
     States detailing the cost and schedule performance for major 
     information technology investments, including the purposes 
     and life-cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any 
     cost and schedule variances; the risks of such investments 
     and the strategies the Internal Revenue Service is using to 
     mitigate such risks; and the expected developmental 
     milestones to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the 
     next quarter.
          administrative provisions--internal revenue service
                     (including transfers of funds)
       Sec. 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
     transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service 
     appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an 
     employee training program, which shall include the following 
     topics: taxpayers' rights, dealing courteously with 
     taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, ethics, and the 
     impartial application of tax law.
       Sec. 103. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and 
     enforce policies and procedures that will safeguard the 
     confidentiality of taxpayer information and protect taxpayers 
     against identity theft.
       Sec. 104. Funds made available by this or any other Act to 
     the Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved 
     facilities and increased staffing to provide sufficient and 
     effective 1-800 help line service for taxpayers. The 
     Commissioner shall continue to make improvements to the 
     Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority 
     and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
     to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to 
     victims of tax-related crimes.
       Sec. 105. None of the funds made available to the Internal 
     Revenue Service by this Act may be used to make a video 
     unless the Service-Wide Video Editorial Board determines in 
     advance that making the video is appropriate, taking into 
     account the cost, topic, tone, and purpose of the video.
       Sec. 106. The Internal Revenue Service shall issue a notice 
     of confirmation of any address change relating to an employer 
     making employment tax payments, and such notice shall be sent 
     to both the employer's former and new address and an officer 
     or employee of the Internal Revenue Service shall give 
     special consideration to an offer-in-compromise from a 
     taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by a third party 
     payroll tax preparer.
       Sec. 107. None of the funds made available under this Act 
     may be used by the Internal Revenue Service to target 
     citizens of the United States for exercising any right 
     guaranteed under the First Amendment to the Constitution of 
     the United States.
       Sec. 108. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by the Internal Revenue Service to target groups for 
     regulatory scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
       Sec. 109. None of funds made available by this Act to the 
     Internal Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on 
     conferences that do not adhere to the procedures, 
     verification processes, documentation requirements, and 
     policies issued by the Chief Financial Officer, Human Capital 
     Office, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a result of the 
     recommendations in the report published on May 31, 2013, by 
     the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration 
     entitled ``Review of the August 2010 Small Business/Self-
     Employed Division's Conference in Anaheim, California'' 
     (Reference Number 2013-10-037).
       Sec. 110. None of the funds made available in this Act to 
     the Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended--
       (1) to make a payment to any employee under a bonus, award, 
     or recognition program; or
       (2) under any hiring or personnel selection process with 
     respect to re-hiring a former employee, unless such program 
     or process takes into account the conduct and Federal tax 
     compliance of such employee or former employee.
       Sec. 111. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to confidentiality and 
     disclosure of returns and return information).
       Sec. 112. Except to the extent provided in section 6014, 
     6020, or 6201(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, no 
     funds in this or any other Act shall be available to the 
     Secretary of the Treasury to provide to any person a proposed 
     final return or statement for use by such person to satisfy a 
     filing or reporting requirement under such Code.
       Sec. 113. In addition to the amounts otherwise made 
     available in this Act for the Internal Revenue Service, 
     $77,000,000, to be available until September 30, 2020, shall 
     be transferred by the Commissioner to the ``Taxpayer 
     Services'', ``Enforcement'', or ``Operations Support'' 
     accounts of the Internal Revenue Service for an additional 
     amount to be used solely for carrying out Public Law 115-97: 
     Provided, That such funds shall not be available until the 
     Commissioner submits to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate a spending plan 
     for such funds.
         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury
                     (including transfers of funds)
       Sec. 114. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury 
     in this Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including 
     maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase of insurance for 
     official motor vehicles operated in foreign countries; 
     purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the general 
     purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
     overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts 
     with the Department of State for the furnishing of health and 
     medical services to employees and their dependents serving in 
     foreign countries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
       Sec. 115. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in 
     this title made available under the headings ``Departmental 
     Offices--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Terrorism and 
     Financial Intelligence'', ``Office of Inspector General'', 
     ``Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief 
     Program'', ``Financial Crimes Enforcement Network'', ``Bureau 
     of the Fiscal Service'', and ``Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and 
     Trade Bureau'' may be transferred between such appropriations 
     upon the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided, 
     That no transfer under this section may increase or decrease 
     any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
       Sec. 116. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
     available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
     transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
     Administration's appropriation upon the advance approval of 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer 
     may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 
     2 percent.
       Sec. 117. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or 
     otherwise available to the Department of the Treasury or the 
     Bureau of Engraving and Printing may be used to redesign the 
     $1 Federal Reserve note.
       Sec. 118. The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds 
     from the ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service-Salaries and 
     Expenses'' to the Debt Collection Fund as necessary to cover 
     the costs of debt collection: Provided, That such amounts 
     shall be reimbursed to such salaries and expenses account 
     from debt collections received in the Debt Collection Fund.
       Sec. 119. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act may be used by the United 
     States Mint to construct or operate any museum without the 
     explicit approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate, the House Committee 
     on Financial Services, and the Senate Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
       Sec. 120. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act or source to the 
     Department of the Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and 
     Printing, and the United States Mint, individually or 
     collectively, may be used to consolidate any or all functions 
     of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United States 
     Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
     Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 121. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available 
     by the transfer of funds in this Act, for the Department of 
     the Treasury's intelligence or intelligence related 
     activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the 
     Congress for purposes of section 504 of the National Security 
     Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2019 until the 
     enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2019.
       Sec. 122. Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available from 
     the Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial Revolving 
     Fund for necessary official reception and representation 
     expenses.
       Sec. 123. The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a 
     Capital Investment Plan to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 
     30 days following the submission of the annual budget 
     submitted by the President: Provided, That such Capital 
     Investment Plan shall include capital investment spending 
     from all accounts within the Department of the Treasury, 
     including but not limited to the Department-wide Systems and 
     Capital Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise Fund 
     account, and the Treasury Forfeiture Fund account: Provided 
     further, That such Capital Investment Plan shall include 
     expenditures occurring in previous fiscal years for each 
     capital investment project that has not been fully completed.
       Sec. 124. Within 45 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an 
     itemized report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate on the amount of 
     total funds charged to each office by the Franchise Fund 
     including the amount charged for each service provided by the 
     Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed description of the 
     services, a detailed explanation of how each charge for each 
     service is calculated, and a description of the role 
     customers have in governing in the Franchise Fund.
       Sec. 125. During fiscal year 2019--
       (1) none of the funds made available in this or any other 
     Act may be used by the Department of the Treasury, including 
     the Internal Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize 
     any regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance not limited 
     to a particular taxpayer relating to the standard which is 
     used to determine whether an organization is operated 
     exclusively for the promotion of social welfare for purposes 
     of section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     (including the proposed regulations published at 78 Fed. Reg. 
     71535 (November 29, 2013)); and
       (2) the standard and definitions as in effect on January 1, 
     2010, which are used to make such determinations shall apply 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act for purposes of 
     determining status under section 501(c)(4) of such Code of 
     organizations created on, before, or after such date.
       Sec. 126. (a) Not later than 60 days after the end of each 
     quarter, the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of 
     Financial Research shall submit reports on their activities 
     to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial 
     Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
       (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall 
     include--
       (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
     object class, office, and activity;
       (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
     fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
       (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
     during the previous quarter;
       (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
     each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
       (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
     performance measures of each office.
       (c) At the request of any such Committees specified in 
     subsection (a), the Office of Financial Stability and the 
     Office of Financial Research shall make officials available 
     to testify on the contents of the reports required under 
     subsection (a).
       Sec. 127. Amounts made available under the heading ``Office 
     of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence'' shall be available 
     to reimburse the ``Departmental Offices--Salaries and 
     Expenses'' account for expenses incurred in such account for 
     reception and representation expenses to support activities 
     of the Financial Action Task Force.
       Sec. 128. Amounts in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing 
     Fund may be used for the acquisition of necessary land for, 
     and construction of, a replacement currency production 
     facility.
       Sec. 129. Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
     Network and the appropriate divisions of the Department of 
     the Treasury shall submit to Congress a report on any 
     Geographic Targeting Orders issued since 2016, including--
       (1) the type of data collected;
       (2) how the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network uses the 
     data;
       (3) whether the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network needs 
     more authority to combat money laundering through high-end 
     real estate;
       (4) how a record of beneficial ownership would improve and 
     assist law enforcement efforts to investigate and prosecute 
     criminal activity and prevent the use of shell companies to 
     facilitate money laundering, tax evasion, terrorism 
     financing, election fraud, and other illegal activity; and
       (5) the feasibility of implementing Geographic Targeting 
     Orders on a permanent basis on all real estate transactions 
     in the United States greater than $300,000.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''.
                                TITLE II
    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT
                            The White House
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by 
     law, including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence 
     expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be 
     expended and accounted for as provided in that section; hire 
     of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to exceed 
     $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
     U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception 
     and representation expenses, to be available for allocation 
     within the Executive Office of the President; and for 
     necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
     U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.
                 Executive Residence at the White House
                           operating expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
     White House, $13,081,000, to be expended and accounted for as 
     provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.
                         reimbursable expenses
       For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at 
     the White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, 
     That all reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive 
     Residence shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
     this paragraph: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, such amount for reimbursable 
     operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the 
     Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive 
     offsetting collections, for such expenses: Provided further, 
     That the Executive Residence shall require each person 
     sponsoring a reimbursable political event to pay in advance 
     an amount equal to the estimated cost of the event, and all 
     such advance payments shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
     Executive Residence shall require the national committee of 
     the political party of the President to maintain on deposit 
     $25,000, to be separately accounted for and available for 
     expenses relating to reimbursable political events sponsored 
     by such committee during such fiscal year: Provided further, 
     That the Executive Residence shall ensure that a written 
     notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable operating 
     expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
     such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, 
     and that such amount is collected within 30 days after the 
     submission of such notice: Provided further, That the 
     Executive Residence shall charge interest and assess 
     penalties and other charges on any such amount that is not 
     reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the 
     interest and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding 
     debt on a United States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 
     3717: Provided further, That each such amount that is 
     reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and charges, shall 
     be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: 
     Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall prepare 
     and submit to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later 
     than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this 
     Act, a report setting forth the reimbursable operating 
     expenses of the Executive Residence during the preceding 
     fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, the 
     amount of such total that consists of reimbursable official 
     and ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists 
     of reimbursable political events, and the portion of each 
     such amount that has been reimbursed as of the date of the 
     report: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
     maintain a system for the tracking of expenses related to 
     reimbursable events within the Executive Residence that 
     includes a standard for the classification of any such 
     expense as political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That 
     no provision of this paragraph may be construed to exempt the 
     Executive Residence from any other applicable requirement of 
     subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States 
     Code.
                   White House Repair and Restoration
       For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the 
     Executive Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 
     105(d), $750,000, to remain available until expended, for 
     required maintenance, resolution of safety and health issues, 
     and continued preventative maintenance.
                      Council of Economic Advisers
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers 
     in carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 
     1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,187,000.
        National Security Council and Homeland Security Council
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and 
     the Homeland Security Council, including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,800,000.
                        Office of Administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
     U.S.C. 107, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     $100,000,000, of which not to exceed $12,800,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for continued modernization of 
     information resources within the Executive Office of the 
     President.
                    Office of Management and Budget
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and 
     Budget, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the 
     provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, and 
     to prepare and submit the budget of the United States 
     Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31, 
     United States Code, $101,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $3,000 shall be available for official representation 
     expenses: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in 
     this Act for the Office of Management and Budget may be used 
     for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural marketing 
     orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions 
     of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
     601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made 
     available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act 
     may be expended for the altering of the transcript of actual 
     testimony of witnesses, except for testimony of officials of 
     the Office of Management and Budget, before the Committees on 
     Appropriations or their subcommittees: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available for the Office of Management 
     and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of 
     the annual work plan developed by the Corps of Engineers for
     submission to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That of the funds made available for the Office of 
     Management and Budget by this Act, no less than three full-
     time equivalent senior staff position shall be dedicated 
     solely to the Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement 
     Coordinator: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided in this or prior Acts shall be used, directly or 
     indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, for 
     evaluating or determining if water resource project or study 
     reports submitted by the Chief of Engineers acting through 
     the Secretary of the Army are in compliance with all 
     applicable laws, regulations, and requirements relevant to 
     the Civil Works water resource planning process: Provided 
     further, That the Office of Management and Budget shall have 
     not more than 60 days in which to perform budgetary policy 
     reviews of water resource matters on which the Chief of 
     Engineers has reported: Provided further, That the Director 
     of the Office of Management and Budget shall notify the 
     appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees when the 
     60-day review is initiated: Provided further, That if water 
     resource reports have not been transmitted to the appropriate 
     authorizing and appropriating committees within 15 days after 
     the end of the Office of Management and Budget review period 
     based on the notification from the Director, Congress shall 
     assume Office of Management and Budget concurrence with the 
     report and act accordingly.
       In addition, $2,000,000 for the Office of Information and 
     Regulatory Affairs to hire additional personnel dedicated to 
     regulatory review and reforms: Provided, That these amounts 
     shall be in addition to any other amounts available for such 
     purpose: Provided further, That these funds may not be used 
     to backfill vacancies.
                 Office of National Drug Control Policy
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
     Control Policy; for research activities pursuant to the 
     Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 
     2006 (Public Law 109-469); not to exceed $10,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses; and for participation 
     in joint projects or in the provision of services on matters 
     of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
     organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
     $18,400,000: Provided, That the Office is authorized to 
     accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and 
     personal, public and private, without fiscal year limitation, 
     for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
     Office.
                     federal drug control programs
             high intensity drug trafficking areas program
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug 
     Control Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas 
     Program, $280,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, for drug control activities consistent with the 
     approved strategy for each of the designated High Intensity 
     Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which not less than 
     51 percent shall be transferred to State and local entities 
     for drug control activities and shall be obligated not later 
     than 120 days after enactment of this Act: Provided, That up 
     to 49 percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and 
     departments in amounts determined by the Director of the 
     Office of National Drug Control Policy, of which up to 
     $2,700,000 may be used for auditing services and associated 
     activities: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the 
     requirements of Public Law 106-58, any unexpended funds 
     obligated prior to fiscal year 2017 may be used for any other 
     approved activities of that HIDTA, subject to reprogramming 
     requirements: Provided further, That each HIDTA designated as 
     of September 30, 2018, shall be funded at not less than the 
     fiscal year 2018 base level, unless the Director submits to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate justification for changes to 
     those levels based on clearly articulated priorities and 
     published Office of National Drug Control Policy performance 
     measures of effectiveness: Provided further, That the 
     Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     initial allocation of fiscal year 2019 funding among HIDTAs 
     not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, and shall 
     notify the Committees of planned uses of discretionary HIDTA 
     funding, as determined in consultation with the HIDTA 
     Directors, not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That upon a determination that all or 
     part of the funds so transferred from this appropriation are 
     not necessary for the purposes provided herein and upon 
     notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate, such amounts may be 
     transferred back to this appropriation.
                  other federal drug control programs
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For other drug control activities authorized by the Office 
     of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 
     (Public Law 109-469), $117,327,000, to remain available until 
     expended, which shall be available as follows: $99,000,000 
     for the Drug-Free Communities Program, of which $2,000,000 
     shall be made available as directed by section 4 of Public 
     Law 107-82, as amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 U.S.C. 1521 
     note); $2,000,000 for drug court training and technical 
     assistance; $9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,577,000 
     for the United States membership dues to the World Anti-
     Doping Agency; and $1,250,000 shall be made available as 
     directed by section 1105 of Public Law 109-469; and 
     $3,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
     activities authorized by section 103 of Public Law 114-198: 
     Provided, That amounts made available under this heading may 
     be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
     carry out such activities.
                          Unanticipated Needs
       For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
     unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, 
     security, or defense which may arise at home or abroad during 
     the current fiscal year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, 
     $1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.
              Information Technology Oversight and Reform
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, 
     efficient, secure, and effective uses of information 
     technology in the Federal Government, $19,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget may transfer these funds to 
     one or more other agencies to carry out projects to meet 
     these purposes.
                  Special Assistance to the President
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to 
     provide assistance to the President in connection with 
     specially assigned functions; services as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence expenses 
     as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which shall be expended and 
     accounted for as provided in that section; and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, $4,288,000.
                Official Residence of the Vice President
                           operating expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to 
     the extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, 
     including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
     residence of the Vice President; the hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; and not to exceed $90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 
     106(b)(2), $302,000: Provided, That advances, repayments, or 
     transfers from this appropriation may be made to any 
     department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
     activities.
Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 201. From funds made available in this Act under the 
     headings ``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the 
     White House'', ``White House Repair and Restoration'', 
     ``Council of Economic Advisers'', ``National Security Council 
     and Homeland Security Council'', ``Office of 
     Administration'', ``Special Assistance to the President'', 
     and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such 
     other officer as the President may designate in writing), 
     may, with advance approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such 
     appropriation to any other such appropriation, to be merged 
     with and available for the same time and for the same 
     purposes as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided, 
     That the amount of an appropriation shall not be increased by 
     more than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided further, 
     That no amount shall be transferred from ``Special Assistance 
     to the President'' or ``Official Residence of the Vice 
     President'' without the approval of the Vice President.
       Sec. 202. (a) During fiscal year 2019, any Executive order 
     or Presidential memorandum issued or revoked by the President 
     shall be accompanied by a written statement from the Director 
     of the Office of Management and Budget on the budgetary 
     impact, including costs, benefits, and revenues, of such 
     order or memorandum.
       (b) Any such statement shall include--
       (1) a narrative summary of the budgetary impact of such 
     order or memorandum on the Federal Government;
       (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
     and outlays as the result of such order or memorandum, listed 
     by Federal agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year period 
     beginning in fiscal year 2019; and
       (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government as the 
     result of such order or memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year 
     period beginning in fiscal year 2019.
       (c) If an Executive order or Presidential memorandum is 
     issued during fiscal year 2019 due to a national emergency, 
     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may issue 
     the statement required by subsection (a) not later than 15 
     days after the date that such order or memorandum is issued.
       (d) The requirement for cost estimates for Presidential 
     memoranda shall only apply for Presidential memoranda 
     estimated to have a regulatory cost in excess of 
     $100,000,000.
       This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the 
     President Appropriations Act, 2019''.
  
                               TITLE III
                             THE JUDICIARY
                   Supreme Court of the United States
                         salaries and expenses
       For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme 
     Court, as required by law, excluding care of the building and 
     grounds, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
     authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 
     for official reception and representation expenses; and for 
     miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice 
     may approve, $84,703,000, of which $1,500,000 shall remain 
     available until expended.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of the chief 
     justice and associate justices of the court.
                    care of the building and grounds
       For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the 
     Architect of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon 
     the Architect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,999,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
                         salaries and expenses
       For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary 
     expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $32,016,000.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of the chief 
     judge and judges of the court.
               United States Court of International Trade
                         salaries and expenses
       For salaries of officers and employees of the court, 
     services, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized 
     by law, $19,450,000.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of the chief 
     judge and judges of the court.
    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services
                         salaries and expenses
       For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of 
     Federal Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and 
     employees of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically 
     provided for, necessary expenses of the courts, and the 
     purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
     Probation and Pretrial Services Office staff, as authorized 
     by law, $5,154,461,000 (including the purchase of firearms 
     and ammunition); of which not to exceed $27,817,000 shall 
     remain available until expended for space alteration projects 
     and for furniture and furnishings related to new space 
     alteration and construction projects.
       In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
     necessary under current law for the salaries of circuit and 
     district judges (including judges of the territorial courts 
     of the United States), bankruptcy judges, and justices and 
     judges retired from office or from regular active service.
       In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of 
     Federal Claims associated with processing cases under the 
     National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-
     660), not to exceed $8,475,000, to be appropriated from the 
     Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.
                           defender services
       For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
     compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
     appointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 
     3599, and for the compensation and reimbursement of expenses 
     of persons furnishing investigative, expert, and other 
     services for such representations as authorized by law; the 
     compensation (in accordance with the maximums under 18 U.S.C. 
     3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed 
     to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
     waived representation by counsel; the compensation and 
     reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to represent 
     jurors in civil actions for the protection of their 
     employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d)(1); the 
     compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
     appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with 
     certain judicial civil forfeiture proceedings; the 
     compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of 
     guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 4100(b); and for 
     necessary training and general administrative expenses, 
     $1,140,846,000 to remain available until expended.
                    fees of jurors and commissioners
       For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
     1871 and 1876; compensation of jury commissioners as 
     authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of 
     commissioners appointed in condemnation cases pursuant to 
     rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
     U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $49,750,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the compensation of 
     land commissioners shall not exceed the daily equivalent of 
     the highest rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5332.
                             court security
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
     incident to the provision of protective guard services for 
     United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
     Federal court operations, and the procurement, installation, 
     and maintenance of security systems and equipment for United 
     States courthouses and other facilities housing Federal court 
     operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
     inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, 
     perimeter security, basic security services provided by the 
     Federal Protective Service, and other similar activities as 
     authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and 
     Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), $604,460,000, of 
     which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the 
     United States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible 
     for administering the Judicial Facility Security Program 
     consistent with standards or guidelines agreed to by the 
     Director of the Administrative Office of the United States 
     Courts and the Attorney General.
           Administrative Office of the United States Courts
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the 
     United States Courts as authorized by law, including travel 
     as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor 
     vehicle as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and 
     rent in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $92,413,000, 
     of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for official 
     reception and representation expenses.
                        Federal Judicial Center
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
     authorized by Public Law 90-219, $29,819,000; of which 
     $1,800,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2020, 
     to provide education and training to Federal court personnel; 
     and of which not to exceed $1,500 is authorized for official 
     reception and representation expenses.
                  United States Sentencing Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the 
     provisions of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, 
     $18,548,000, of which not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for 
     official reception and representation expenses.
                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this 
     title which are available for salaries and expenses shall be 
     available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
       Sec. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in 
     this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but 
     no such appropriation, except ``Courts of Appeals, District 
     Courts, and Other Judicial Services, Defender Services'' and 
     ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
     Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall be 
     increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: 
     Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
     treated as a reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 
     608 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
     expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
     forth in section 608.
       Sec. 303. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     salaries and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, 
     District Courts, and Other Judicial Services'' shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses 
     of the Judicial Conference of the United States: Provided, 
     That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall 
     be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
     of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of 
     the Judicial Conference.
       Sec. 304. Section 3315(a) of title 40, United States Code, 
     shall be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for 
     ``executive'' each place it appears.
       Sec. 305. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
     Marshals Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its 
     Director may designate in consultation with the Director of 
     the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, for 
     purposes of a pilot program, the security services that 40 
     U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to 
     provide, except for the services specified in 40 U.S.C. 
     1315(b)(2)(E). For building-specific security services at 
     these courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office 
     of the United States Courts shall reimburse the United States 
     Marshals Service rather than the Department of Homeland 
     Security.
       Sec. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements 
     Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is 
     amended in the matter following paragraph 12--
       (1) in the second sentence (relating to the District of 
     Kansas), by striking ``27 years and 6 months'' and inserting 
     ``28 years and 6 months''; and
       (2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the District of 
     Hawaii), by striking ``24 years and 6 months'' and inserting 
     ``25 years and 6 months''.
       (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing 
     and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of 
     Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 
     (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 28 U.S.C. 133 note) is 
     amended in the second sentence (relating to the eastern 
     District of Missouri) by striking ``25 years and 6 months'' 
     and inserting ``26 years and 6 months''.
       (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of 
     Justice Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 
     28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended--
       (1) in the first sentence by striking ``16 years'' and 
     inserting ``17 years'';
       (2) in the second sentence (relating to the central 
     District of California), by striking ``15 years and 6 
     months'' and inserting ``16 years and 6 months''; and
       (3) in the third sentence (relating to the western district 
     of North Carolina), by striking ``14 years'' and inserting 
     ``15 years''.
       This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations 
     Act, 2019''.
                                TITLE IV
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
                             Federal Funds
              federal payment for resident tuition support
       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be 
     deposited into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program 
     to be administered by the Mayor, for District of Columbia 
     resident tuition support, $30,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That such funds, including any 
     interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of eligible 
     District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon 
     the difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at 
     public institutions of higher education, or to pay up to 
     $2,500 each year at eligible private institutions of higher 
     education: Provided further, That the awarding of such funds 
     may be prioritized on the basis of a resident's academic 
     merit, the income and need of eligible students and such 
     other factors as may be authorized: Provided further, That 
     the District of Columbia government shall maintain a 
     dedicated account for the Resident Tuition Support Program 
     that shall consist of the Federal funds appropriated to the 
     Program in this Act and any subsequent appropriations, any 
     unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and any 
     interest earned in this or any fiscal year: Provided further, 
     That the account shall be under the control of the District 
     of Columbia Chief Financial Officer, who shall use those 
     funds solely for the purposes of carrying out the Resident 
     Tuition Support Program: Provided further, That the Office of 
     the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a quarterly 
     financial report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate for these funds 
     showing, by object class, the expenditures made and the 
     purpose therefor.
   federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia
       For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined 
     by the Mayor of the District of Columbia in written 
     consultation with the elected county or city officials of 
     surrounding jurisdictions, $12,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, for the costs of providing public safety at 
     events related to the presence of the National Capital in the 
     District of Columbia, including support requested by the 
     Director of the United States Secret Service in carrying out 
     protective duties under the direction of the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, and for the costs of providing support to 
     respond to immediate and specific terrorist threats or 
     attacks in the District of Columbia or surrounding 
     jurisdictions.
           federal payment to the district of columbia courts
       For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia 
     Courts, $244,939,000 to be allocated as follows: for the 
     District of Columbia Court of Appeals, $13,379,000, of which 
     not to exceed $2,500 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses; for the Superior Court of the 
     District of Columbia, $121,251,000, of which not to exceed 
     $2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; 
     for the District of Columbia Court System, $71,909,000, of 
     which not to exceed $2,500 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses; and $38,400,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020, for capital improvements for 
     District of Columbia courthouse facilities: Provided, That 
     funds made available for capital improvements shall be 
     expended consistent with the District of Columbia Courts 
     master plan study and facilities condition assessment: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned 
     quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
     obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
     appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal 
     agencies: Provided further, That 30 days after providing 
     written notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate, the District of 
     Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than $9,000,000 of 
     the funds provided under this heading among the items and 
     entities funded under this heading: Provided further, That 
     the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the 
     District of Columbia may, by regulation, establish a program 
     substantially similar to the program set forth in subchapter 
     II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States Code, for 
     employees of the District of Columbia Courts.
  federal payment for defender services in district of columbia courts
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 
     11-2605, D.C. Official Code (relating to representation 
     provided under the District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
     Act), payments for counsel appointed in proceedings in the 
     Family Court of the Superior Court of the District of 
     Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or 
     pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad 
     litem representation, training, technical assistance, and 
     such other services as are necessary to improve the quality 
     of guardian ad litem representation, payments for counsel 
     appointed in adoption proceedings under chapter 3 of title 
     16, D.C. Official Code, and payments authorized under section 
     21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to services provided 
     under the District of Columbia Guardianship, Protective 
     Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
     $46,005,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That not more than $20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided 
     in this account may be transferred to and merged with funds 
     made available under the heading ``Federal Payment to the 
     District of Columbia Courts,'' to be available for the same 
     period and purposes as funds made available under that 
     heading for capital improvements to District of Columbia 
     courthouse facilities: Provided further, That funds provided 
     under this heading shall be administered by the Joint 
     Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of 
     Columbia: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, this appropriation shall be apportioned 
     quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
     obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
     appropriated for expenses of other Federal agencies.
 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia
       For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire 
     of motor vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender 
     Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, as 
     authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-
     Government Improvement Act of 1997, $256,724,000, of which 
     not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
     Pretrial Services Agency programs, and of which not to exceed 
     $25,000 is for dues and assessments relating to the 
     implementation of the Court Services and Offender Supervision 
     Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 2002: Provided, That, of 
     the funds appropriated under this heading, $183,166,000 shall 
     be for necessary expenses of Community Supervision and Sex 
     Offender Registration, to include expenses relating to the 
     supervision of adults subject to protection orders or the 
     provision of services for or related to such persons, of 
     which $5,919,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
     2021 for costs associated with relocation under a replacement 
     lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and related 
     facilities: Provided further, That, of the funds appropriated 
     under this heading, $73,558,000 shall be available to the 
     Pretrial Services Agency, of which $7,304,000 shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2021 for costs associated with 
     relocation under a replacement lease for headquarters 
     offices, field offices, and related facilities: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
     amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by 
     the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and 
     expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
     salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided 
     further, That amounts under this heading may be used for 
     programmatic incentives for defendants to successfully 
     complete their terms of supervision.
  federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service
       For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire 
     of motor vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public 
     Defender Service, as authorized by the National Capital 
     Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
     $45,858,000, of which $4,471,000 shall be available until 
     September 30, 2021 for costs associated with relocation under 
     a replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, 
     and related facilities: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall 
     be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
     Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
     appropriated for salaries and expenses of Federal agencies.
      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council
       For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating 
     Council, $2,150,000, to remain available until expended, to 
     support initiatives related to the coordination of Federal 
     and local criminal justice resources in the District of 
     Columbia.
                federal payment for judicial commissions
       For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and 
     Tenure, $295,000, and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, 
     $270,000.
                 federal payment for school improvement
       For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in 
     the District of Columbia, $52,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended, for payments authorized under the Scholarship 
     for Opportunity and Results Act (division C of Public Law 
     112-10): Provided, That, to the extent that funds are 
     available for opportunity scholarships and following the 
     priorities included in section 3006 of such Act, the 
     Secretary of Education shall make scholarships available to 
     students eligible under section 3013(3) of such Act (Public 
     Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 211) including students who were not 
     offered a scholarship during any
     previous school year: Provided further, That within funds 
     provided for opportunity scholarships up to $1,200,000 shall 
     be for the activities specified in sections 3007(b) through 
     3007(d) of the Act and up to $500,000 shall be for the 
     activities specified in section 3009 of the Act.
      federal payment for the district of columbia national guard
       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National 
     Guard, $435,000, to remain available until expended for the 
     Major General David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia 
     National Guard Retention and College Access Program.
         federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids
       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the 
     testing of individuals for, and the treatment of individuals 
     with, human immunodeficiency virus and acquired 
     immunodeficiency syndrome in the District of Columbia, 
     $2,000,000.
                       District of Columbia Funds
       Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
     for the current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the 
     District of Columbia (``General Fund'') for programs and 
     activities set forth under the heading ``part a--summary of 
     expenses'' and at the rate set forth under such heading, as 
     included in the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request Act of 2018 
     submitted to Congress by the District of Columbia, as amended 
     as of the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as 
     provided in section 450A of the District of Columbia Home 
     Rule Act (section 1-204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 
     816 and 817 of the Financial Services and General Government 
     Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs. 47-369.01 and 47-369.02, D.C. 
     Official Code), and provisions of this Act, the total amount 
     appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for the 
     District of Columbia for fiscal year 2019 under this heading 
     shall not exceed the estimates included in the Fiscal Year 
     2019 Budget Request Act of 2018 submitted to Congress by the 
     District of Columbia, as amended as of the date of enactment 
     of this Act or the sum of the total revenues of the District 
     of Columbia for such fiscal year: Provided further, That the 
     amount appropriated may be increased by proceeds of one-time 
     transactions, which are expended for emergency or 
     unanticipated operating or capital needs: Provided further, 
     That such increases shall be approved by enactment of local 
     District law and shall comply with all reserve requirements 
     contained in the District of Columbia Home Rule Act: Provided 
     further, That the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
     Columbia shall take such steps as are necessary to assure 
     that the District of Columbia meets these requirements, 
     including the apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of 
     the appropriations and funds made available to the District 
     during fiscal year 2019, except that the Chief Financial 
     Officer may not reprogram for operating expenses any funds 
     derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for 
     capital projects.
 federal payment to the district of columbia water and sewer authority
       For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Water and 
     Sewer Authority, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, to continue implementation of the Combined Sewer 
     Overflow Long-Term Plan: Provided, That the District of 
     Columbia Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100 percent 
     match for this payment.
       This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''.
                                TITLE V
                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
             Administrative Conference of the United States
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of 
     the United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., 
     $3,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, of 
     which not to exceed $1,000 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses.
                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the 
     purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and the rental 
     of space (to include multiple year leases), in the District 
     of Columbia and elsewhere, $281,500,000, including not to 
     exceed $3,000 for official reception and representation 
     expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for the expenses for 
     consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
     foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, of which 
     not less than $57,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020, shall be for the purchase of information 
     technology and of which not less than $3,302,509 shall be for 
     expenses of the Office of the Inspector General: Provided, 
     That notwithstanding the limitations in 31 U.S.C. 1553, 
     amounts provided under this heading are available for the 
     liquidation of obligations equal to current year payments on 
     leases entered into prior to the date of enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That for the purpose of recording and 
     liquidating any lease obligations that should have been 
     recorded and liquidated against accounts closed pursuant to 
     31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the preceding proviso, 
     such amounts shall be transferred to and recorded in a no-
     year account in the Treasury, which has been established for 
     the sole purpose of recording adjustments for and liquidating 
     such unpaid obligations.
                   Consumer Product Safety Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety 
     Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
     individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the 
     maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal 
     awards to recognize non-Federal officials' contributions to 
     Commission activities, and not to exceed $4,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, $126,000,000.
     administrative provisions--consumer product safety commission
       Sec. 501. During fiscal year 2019, none of the amounts made 
     available by this Act may be used to finalize or implement 
     the Safety Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles 
     published by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in the 
     Federal Register on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964) 
     until after--
       (1) the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with 
     the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
     Department of Defense, completes a study to determine--
       (A) the technical validity of the lateral stability and 
     vehicle handling requirements proposed by such standard for 
     purposes of reducing the risk of Recreational Off-Highway 
     Vehicle (referred to in this section as ``ROV'') rollovers in 
     the off-road environment, including the repeatability and 
     reproducibility of testing for compliance with such 
     requirements;
       (B) the number of ROV rollovers that would be prevented if 
     the proposed requirements were adopted;
       (C) whether there is a technical basis for the proposal to 
     provide information on a point-of-sale hangtag about a ROV's 
     rollover resistance on a progressive scale; and
       (D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used by the United 
     States military if the proposed requirements were adopted; 
     and
       (2) a report containing the results of the study completed 
     under paragraph (1) is delivered to--
       (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     of the Senate;
       (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
       (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
                     Election Assistance Commission
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote 
     Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-252), $9,200,000, of which 
     $1,500,000 shall be transferred to the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology for election reform activities 
     authorized under the Help America Vote Act of 2002.
                   Federal Communications Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications 
     Commission, as authorized by law, including uniforms and 
     allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not 
     to exceed $4,000 for official reception and representation 
     expenses; purchase and hire of motor vehicles; special 
     counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     $333,118,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That $333,118,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
     and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the 
     Communications Act of 1934, shall be retained and used for 
     necessary expenses and shall remain available until expended: 
     Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
     reduced as such offsetting collections are received during 
     fiscal year 2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 
     appropriation estimated at $0: Provided further, That any 
     offsetting collections received in excess of $333,118,000 in 
     fiscal year 2019 shall not be available for obligation: 
     Provided further, That remaining offsetting collections from 
     prior years collected in excess of the amount specified for 
     collection in each such year and otherwise becoming available 
     on October 1, 2018, shall not be available for obligation: 
     Provided further, That, notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 
     309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding 
     system that may be retained and made available for obligation 
     shall not exceed $130,284,000 for fiscal year 2019: Provided 
     further, That, of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
     not less than $11,064,000 shall be for the salaries and 
     expenses of the Office of Inspector General.
      administrative provisions--federal communications commission
       Sec. 510. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
     used by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, 
     amend, or change its rules or regulations for universal 
     service support payments to implement the February 27, 2004 
     recommendations of the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal 
     Service regarding single connection or primary line 
     restrictions on universal service support payments.
                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
                    office of the inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978,
     $42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance Fund 
     or, only when appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
                      Federal Election Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, $71,250,000, of which 
     not to exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and 
     representation expenses.
                   Federal Labor Relations Authority
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the 
     Federal Labor Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization 
     Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 
     1978, including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 
     including hire of experts and consultants, hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles, and including official reception and 
     representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500) and rental of 
     conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
     $26,200,000: Provided, That public members of the Federal 
     Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per 
     diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 
     5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
     service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
     Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds 
     received from fees charged to non-Federal participants at 
     labor-management relations conferences shall be credited to 
     and merged with this account, to be available without further 
     appropriation for the costs of carrying out these 
     conferences.
                        Federal Trade Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, 
     including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
     U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 
     for official reception and representation expenses, 
     $309,700,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for use to 
     contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
     accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided 
     further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     not to exceed $136,000,000 of offsetting collections derived 
     from fees collected for premerger notification filings under 
     the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 
     U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be 
     retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
     appropriation: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, not to exceed $17,000,000 in 
     offsetting collections derived from fees sufficient to 
     implement and enforce the Telemarketing Sales Rule, 
     promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and 
     Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be 
     credited to this account, and be retained and used for 
     necessary expenses in this appropriation: Provided further, 
     That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
     be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during 
     fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 
     appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
     than $156,700,000: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     made available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to 
     implement subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal 
     Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).
                    General Services Administration
                        real property activities
                         federal buildings fund
                 limitations on availability of revenue
                     (including transfers of funds)
       Amounts in the Fund, including revenues and collections 
     deposited into the Fund, shall be available for necessary 
     expenses of real property management and related activities 
     not otherwise provided for, including operation, maintenance, 
     and protection of federally owned and leased buildings; 
     rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration 
     of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
     space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) 
     in connection with the assignment, allocation, and transfer 
     of space; contractual services incident to cleaning or 
     servicing buildings, and moving; repair and alteration of 
     federally owned buildings, including grounds, approaches, and 
     appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
     preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
     buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as 
     otherwise authorized by law; acquisition of options to 
     purchase buildings and sites; conversion and extension of 
     federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design of 
     projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new 
     buildings (including equipment for such buildings); and 
     payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
     public buildings acquired by installment purchase and 
     purchase contract; in the aggregate amount of $9,633,450,000, 
     of which--
       (1) $1,080,068,000 shall remain available until expended 
     for construction and acquisition (including funds for sites 
     and expenses, and associated design and construction 
     services) as follows:
       (A) $767,900,000 shall be for the Department of 
     Transportation Lease Purchase Option, Washington, District of 
     Columbia;
       (B) $100,000,000 shall be for the DHS Consolidation at St. 
     Elizabeths, Washington, District of Columbia;
       (C) $27,268,000 shall be for the Former Hardesty Federal 
     Complex, Kansas City, Missouri;
       (D) $9,000,000 shall be for the Southeast Federal Center 
     Remediation, Washington, District of Columbia; and
       (E) $175,900,000 shall be for the Calexico West Land Port 
     of Entry, Calexico, California:
      Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
     construction and acquisition projects may be exceeded to the 
     extent that savings are effected in other such projects, but 
     not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts included in a 
     transmitted prospectus, if required, unless advance approval 
     is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a 
     greater amount;
       (2) $890,419,000 shall remain available until expended for 
     repairs and alterations, including associated design and 
     construction services, of which--
       (A) $424,690,000 is for Major Repairs and Alterations;
       (B) $373,556,000 is for Basic Repairs and Alterations; and
       (C) $92,173,000 is for Special Emphasis Programs, of 
     which--
       (i) $30,000,000 is for Fire and Life Safety;
       (ii) $11,500,000 is for Judiciary Capital Security; and
       (iii) $50,673,000 is for Consolidation Activities: 
     Provided, That consolidation projects result in reduced 
     annual rent paid by the tenant agency: Provided further, That 
     no consolidation project exceed $10,000,000 in costs: 
     Provided further, That consolidation projects are approved by 
     each of the committees specified in section 3307(a) of title 
     40, United States Code: Provided further, That preference is 
     given to consolidation projects that achieve a utilization 
     rate of 130 usable square feet or less per person for office 
     space: Provided further, That the obligation of funds under 
     this paragraph for consolidation activities may not be made 
     until 10 days after a proposed spending plan and explanation 
     for each project to be undertaken, including estimated 
     savings, has been submitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate:
      Provided, That funds made available in this or any previous 
     Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
     shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
     identified for each project, except each project in this or 
     any previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 
     10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the 
     Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided 
     further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
     been fully approved may be funded under this category only if 
     advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That the amounts provided 
     in this or any prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may 
     be used to fund costs associated with implementing security 
     improvements to buildings necessary to meet the minimum 
     standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
     compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the 
     appropriate Committees of the House and Senate: Provided 
     further, That the difference between the funds appropriated 
     and expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, under 
     the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred 
     to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund authorized 
     increases in prospectus projects: Provided further, That the 
     amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic Repairs 
     and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
     Government arising from any projects under the heading 
     ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized 
     increases in prospectus projects;
       (3) $5,418,845,000 for rental of space to remain available 
     until expended; and
       (4) $2,244,118,000 for building operations to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the total amount of 
     funds made available from this Fund to the General Services 
     Administration shall not be available for expenses of any 
     construction, repair, alteration and acquisition project for 
     which a prospectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has not 
     been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended 
     for each project for required expenses for the development of 
     a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That funds available 
     in the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency 
     repairs when advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
     on Appropriations: Provided further, That amounts necessary 
     to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies 
     under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to provide such 
     reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
     facilities on private or other property not in Government 
     ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the 
     United States Secret Service to perform its protective 
     functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from 
     such revenues and collections: Provided further, That 
     revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this 
     Fund during fiscal year 2019, excluding reimbursements under 
     40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new 
     obligational authority authorized for Real Property 
     Activities of the Federal Buildings Fund in this Act shall 
     remain in the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure 
     except as authorized in appropriations Acts.
  
                           general activities
                         government-wide policy
       For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
     for Government-wide policy and evaluation activities 
     associated with the management of real and personal property 
     assets and certain administrative services; Government-wide 
     policy support responsibilities relating to acquisition, 
     travel, motor vehicles, information technology management, 
     and related technology activities; and services as authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $58,499,000.
                           operating expenses
       For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
     for Government-wide activities associated with utilization 
     and donation of surplus personal property; disposal of real 
     property; agency-wide policy direction, management, and 
     communications; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
     $49,440,000, of which not less than $26,890,000 is for Real 
     and Personal Property Management and Disposal; and up to 
     $22,550,000 is for the Office of the Administrator, of which 
     not to exceed $7,500 is for official reception and 
     representation expenses.
                   civilian board of contract appeals
       For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
     for the activities associated with the Civilian Board of 
     Contract Appeals, $9,301,000.
                      office of inspector general
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     and service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000: 
     Provided, That not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
     payment for information and detection of fraud against the 
     Government, including payment for recovery of stolen 
     Government property: Provided further, That not to exceed 
     $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
     Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of 
     efforts and initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of 
     Inspector General effectiveness.
       In addition to the foregoing appropriation, $2,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be transferred to the 
     Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency 
     for enhancements to <a href="http://www.oversight.gov">www.oversight.gov</a>: Provided, That these 
     amounts shall be in addition to any other amounts available 
     to the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and 
     Efficiency for such purpose.
           allowances and office staff for former presidents
       For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 
     1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $4,796,000.
                     federal citizen services fund
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Products and 
     Programs, including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 
     44 U.S.C. 3604; and for necessary expenses in support of 
     interagency projects that enable the Federal Government to 
     enhance its ability to conduct activities electronically, 
     through the development and implementation of innovative uses 
     of information technology; $55,000,000, to be deposited into 
     the Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided, That the 
     previous amount may be transferred to Federal agencies to 
     carry out the purpose of the Federal Citizen Services Fund: 
     Provided further, That the appropriations, revenues, 
     reimbursements, and collections deposited into the Fund shall 
     be available until expended for necessary expenses of Federal 
     Citizen Services and other activities that enable the Federal 
     Government to enhance its ability to conduct activities 
     electronically in the aggregate amount not to exceed 
     $100,000,000: Provided further, That appropriations, 
     revenues, reimbursements, and collections accruing to this 
     Fund during fiscal year 2019 in excess of such amount shall 
     remain in the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure 
     except as authorized in appropriations Acts: Provided 
     further, That the transfer authorities provided herein shall 
     be in addition to any other transfer authority provided in 
     this Act.
                Asset Proceeds and Space Management Fund
       For carrying out the purposes of the Federal Assets Sale 
     and Transfer Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-287), $15,500,000, 
     to be deposited into the Asset Proceeds and Space Management 
     Fund, to remain available until expended.
                 environmental review improvement fund
       For necessary expenses of the Environmental Review 
     Improvement Fund established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m-
     8(d), $6,070,000, to remain available until expended.
       administrative provisions--general services administration
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 520. Funds available to the General Services 
     Administration shall be available for the hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles.
       Sec. 521. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made 
     available for fiscal year 2019 for Federal Buildings Fund 
     activities may be transferred between such activities only to 
     the extent necessary to meet program requirements: Provided, 
     That any proposed transfers shall be approved in advance by 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 522. Except as otherwise provided in this title, funds 
     made available by this Act shall be used to transmit a fiscal 
     year 2020 request for United States Courthouse construction 
     only if the request: (1) meets the design guide standards for 
     construction as established and approved by the General 
     Services Administration, the Judicial Conference of the 
     United States, and the Office of Management and Budget; (2) 
     reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
     United States as set out in its approved Courthouse Project 
     Priorities plan; and (3) includes a standardized courtroom 
     utilization study of each facility to be constructed, 
     replaced, or expanded.
       Sec. 523. None of the funds provided in this Act may be 
     used to increase the amount of occupiable square feet, 
     provide cleaning services, security enhancements, or any 
     other service usually provided through the Federal Buildings 
     Fund, to any agency that does not pay the rate per square 
     foot assessment for space and services as determined by the 
     General Services Administration in consideration of the 
     Public Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
       Sec. 524. From funds made available under the heading 
     Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of 
     Revenue, claims against the Government of less than $250,000 
     arising from direct construction projects and acquisition of 
     buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in other 
     construction projects with prior notification to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate.
       Sec. 525. In any case in which the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting lease 
     authority pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by 
     the Administrator of the General Services Administration 
     under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the 
     delineated area of procurement is identical to the delineated 
     area included in the prospectus for all lease agreements, 
     except that, if the Administrator determines that the 
     delineated area of the procurement should not be identical to 
     the delineated area included in the prospectus, the 
     Administrator shall provide an explanatory statement to each 
     of such committees and the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate prior to 
     exercising any lease authority provided in the resolution.
       Sec. 526. With respect to each project funded under the 
     heading ``Major Repairs and Alterations'' or ``Judiciary 
     Capital Security Program'', and with respect to E-Government 
     projects funded under the heading ``Federal Citizen Services 
     Fund'', the Administrator of General Services shall submit a 
     spending plan and explanation for each project to be 
     undertaken to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate not later than 60 days 
     after the date of enactment of this Act.
                 Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation
                         salaries and expenses
       For payment to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation 
     Trust Fund, established by section 10 of Public Law 93-642, 
     $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.
                     Merit Systems Protection Board
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit 
     Systems Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
     Numbered 2 of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and 
     the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 
     note), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
     elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct 
     procurement of survey printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for 
     official reception and representation expenses, $44,490,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020, and in addition 
     not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, for administrative expenses to adjudicate 
     retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
     Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the 
     Merit Systems Protection Board.
            Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation
            morris k. udall and stewart l. udall trust fund
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For payment to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall 
     Trust Fund, pursuant to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. 
     Udall Foundation Act (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), $1,875,000, to 
     remain available until expended, of which, notwithstanding 
     sections 8 and 9 of such Act: (1) up to $50,000 shall be used 
     to conduct financial audits pursuant to the Accountability of 
     Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-289); and (2) up to 
     $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out the activities 
     authorized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102-259 and section 
     817(a) of Public Law 106-568 (20 U.S.C. 5604(7)): Provided, 
     That of the total amount made available under this heading 
     $200,000 shall be transferred to the Office of Inspector 
     General of the Department of the Interior, to remain 
     available until expended, for audits and investigations of 
     the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, 
     consistent with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
     App.).
                 environmental dispute resolution fund
       For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to 
     carry out activities
     authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
     Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
              National Archives and Records Administration
                           operating expenses
       For necessary expenses in connection with the 
     administration of the National Archives and Records 
     Administration and archived Federal records and related 
     activities, as provided by law, and for expenses necessary 
     for the review and declassification of documents, the 
     activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the 
     operations and maintenance of the electronic records 
     archives, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, and for 
     uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
     U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and cleaning, 
     $375,105,000.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General 
     Reform Act of 2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 
     (2008), and the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
     App.), and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     $4,801,000.
                        repairs and restoration
       For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives 
     facilities, and to provide adequate storage for holdings, 
     $7,500,000, to remain available until expended.
        national historical publications and records commission
                             grants program
       For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for 
     historical publications and records as authorized by 44 
     U.S.C. 2504, $6,000,000, to remain available until expended.
                  National Credit Union Administration
               community development revolving loan fund
       For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program 
     as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 
     shall be available until September 30, 2020, for technical 
     assistance to low-income designated credit unions.
                      Office of Government Ethics
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
     of Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act 
     of 1978, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading 
     on Congressional Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in 
     the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
     reception and representation expenses, $16,439,000.
                     Office of Personnel Management
                         salaries and expenses
                  (including transfer of trust funds)
       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
     of Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
     Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, 
     including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical 
     examinations performed for veterans by private physicians on 
     a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the District of 
     Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not 
     to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation 
     expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of 
     OPM and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for expenses 
     incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, 
     as amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
     allowances to employees where Voting Rights Act activities 
     require an employee to remain overnight at his or her post of 
     duty, $132,172,000: Provided, That of the total amount made 
     available under this heading, not to exceed $14,000,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, for information 
     technology infrastructure modernization and Trust Fund 
     Federal Financial System migration or modernization, and 
     shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available for 
     such purposes: Provided further, That of the total amount 
     made available under this heading, $639,018 may be made 
     available for strengthening the capacity and capabilities of 
     the acquisition workforce (as defined by the Office of 
     Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et 
     seq.)), including the recruitment, hiring, training, and 
     retention of such workforce and information technology in 
     support of acquisition workforce effectiveness or for 
     management solutions to improve acquisition management; and 
     in addition $133,483,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
     transferred from the appropriate trust funds of OPM without 
     regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
     printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs: 
     Provided further, That the provisions of this appropriation 
     shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust funds 
     as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 
     8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
     shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal 
     Examining Unit of OPM established pursuant to Executive Order 
     No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like 
     purpose: Provided further, That the President's Commission on 
     White House Fellows, established by Executive Order No. 11183 
     of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 2019, accept 
     donations of money, property, and personal services: Provided 
     further, That such donations, including those from prior 
     years, may be used for the development of publicity materials 
     to provide information about the White House Fellows, except 
     that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or 
     reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
     employees of such Commission.
                      office of inspector general
                         salaries and expenses
                  (including transfer of trust funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles, $5,000,000, and in 
     addition, not to exceed $25,265,000 for administrative 
     expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other oversight 
     of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
     insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate 
     trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
     determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the 
     Inspector General is authorized to rent conference rooms in 
     the District of Columbia and elsewhere.
                       Office of Special Counsel
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office 
     of Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
     of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-
     454), the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 
     101-12) as amended by Public Law 107-304, the Whistleblower 
     Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-199), and 
     the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act 
     of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
     witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
     Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
     $26,535,000.
                      Postal Regulatory Commission
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability 
     and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $15,200,000, to be 
     derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended 
     as authorized by section 603(a) of such Act.
              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties 
     Oversight Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the 
     Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 
     U.S.C. 2000ee), $5,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
                   Securities and Exchange Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
     3109, the rental of space (to include multiple year leases) 
     in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and not to exceed 
     $3,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
     $1,658,302,000, to remain available until expended; of which 
     not less than $15,206,269 shall be for the Office of 
     Inspector General; of which not to exceed $75,000 shall be 
     available for a permanent secretariat for the International 
     Organization of Securities Commissions; and of which not to 
     exceed $100,000 shall be available for expenses for 
     consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
     foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, members 
     of their delegations and staffs to exchange views concerning 
     securities matters, such expenses to include necessary 
     logistic and administrative expenses and the expenses of 
     Commission staff and foreign invitees in attendance 
     including: (1) incidental expenses such as meals; (2) travel 
     and transportation; and (3) related lodging or subsistence; 
     and of which not less than $75,081,000 shall be for the 
     Division of Economic and Risk Analysis.
       In addition to the foregoing appropriation, for costs 
     associated with relocation under a replacement lease for the 
     Commission's New York regional office facilities, not to 
     exceed $37,188,942, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That for purposes of calculating the fee rate under 
     section 31(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
     U.S.C. 78ee(j)) for fiscal year 2019, all amounts 
     appropriated under this heading shall be deemed to be the 
     regular appropriation to the Commission for fiscal year 2019: 
     Provided further, That fees and charges authorized by section 
     31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) 
     shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections: 
     Provided further, That not to exceed $1,658,302,000 of such 
     offsetting collections shall be available until expended for 
     necessary expenses of this account and not to exceed 
     $37,188,942 of such offsetting collections shall be available 
     until expended for costs under this heading associated with 
     relocation under a replacement lease for the Commission's New 
     York regional office facilities: Provided further, That the 
     total amount appropriated under this heading from the general 
     fund for fiscal year 2019 shall be reduced as such offsetting 
     fees are received so as to result in a final total fiscal 
     year 2019 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
     not more than $0: Provided further, That if any amount of the 
     appropriation for costs associated with relocation under a 
     replacement lease for the Commission's New York regional 
     office facilities
     is subsequently de-obligated by the Commission, such amount 
     that was derived from the general fund shall be returned to 
     the general fund, and such amounts that were derived from 
     fees or assessments collected for such purpose shall be paid 
     to each national securities exchange and national securities 
     association, respectively, in proportion to any fees or 
     assessments paid by such national securities exchange or 
     national securities association under section 31 of the 
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in fiscal 
     year 2019.
                        Selective Service System
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, 
     including expenses of attendance at meetings and of training 
     for uniformed personnel assigned to the Selective Service 
     System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian 
     employees; hire of passenger motor vehicles; services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $750 for 
     official reception and representation expenses; $26,000,000: 
     Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President 
     may exempt this appropriation from the provisions of 31 
     U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems such action to be 
     necessary in the interest of national defense: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be expended for or in connection with the induction of any 
     person into the Armed Forces of the United States.
                     Small Business Administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
     Small Business Administration, including hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles as authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of 
     title 31, United States Code, and not to exceed $3,500 for 
     official reception and representation expenses, $267,500,000, 
     of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for 
     examinations, reviews, and other lender oversight activities: 
     Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge fees 
     to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small 
     Business Administration, and certain loan program activities, 
     including fees authorized by section 5(b) of the Small 
     Business Act: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
     U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from all such activities shall 
     be credited to this account, to remain available until 
     expended, for carrying out these purposes without further 
     appropriations: Provided further, That the Small Business 
     Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed 
     $4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance 
     with section 132(a) of division K of Public Law 108-447, 
     during fiscal year 2019: Provided further, That $6,100,000 
     shall be available for the Loan Modernization and Accounting 
     System, to be available until September 30, 2020: Provided 
     further, That $3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State 
     Technology Partnership Program under section 34 of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657d).
                  entrepreneurial development programs
       For necessary expenses of programs supporting 
     entrepreneurial and small business development, $241,600,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     $130,000,000 shall be available to fund grants for 
     performance in fiscal year 2019 or fiscal year 2020 as 
     authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act: Provided 
     further, That $31,000,000 shall be for marketing, management, 
     and technical assistance under section 7(m) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that 
     make microloans under the microloan program: Provided 
     further, That $18,000,000 shall be available for grants to 
     States to carry out export programs that assist small 
     business concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $21,900,000.
                           office of advocacy
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in 
     carrying out the provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 
     (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 
     of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), $9,120,000, to remain 
     available until expended.
                     business loans program account
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For the cost of direct loans, $4,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That such costs, 
     including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
     defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974: Provided further, That subject to section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019 
     commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small 
     Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
     $7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 
     2019 commitments for general business loans authorized under 
     section 7(a) of the Small Business Act shall not exceed 
     $30,000,000,000 for a combination of amortizing term loans 
     and the aggregated maximum line of credit provided by 
     revolving loans: Provided further, That during fiscal year 
     2019 commitments for loans authorized under subparagraph (C) 
     of section 502(7) of The Small Business Investment Act of 
     1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed $7,500,000,000: 
     Provided further, That during fiscal year 2019 commitments to 
     guarantee loans for debentures under section 303(b) of the 
     Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
     $4,000,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 
     2019, guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 
     5(g) of the Small Business Act shall not exceed a principal 
     amount of $12,000,000,000. In addition, for administrative 
     expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan 
     programs, $155,150,000, which may be transferred to and 
     merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.
        administrative provisions--small business administration
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 530. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
     Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased 
     by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
     any transfer pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 608 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except 
     in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
       Sec. 531. None of the funds made available to the Small 
     Business Administration in this Act may be provided to a 
     company--
       (1) that is headquarted in the People's Republic of China; 
     or
       (2) for which more than 25 percent of the voting stock of 
     the company is owned by affiliates that are citizens of the 
     People's Republic of China.
       Sec. 532. Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Small Business Administration 
     shall conduct a study on whether the provision of matchmaking 
     services that, using data collected through outside entities 
     such as local chambers of commerce, link veteran 
     entrepreneurs to business leads in given industry sectors or 
     geographic regions, would enhance the existing veterans 
     entrepreneurship programs of the Administration.
       Sec. 533. The Administrator of the Small Business 
     Administration shall--
       (1) work with Federal agencies to review each Office of 
     Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization's efforts to 
     comply with the requirements under section 15(k) of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)); and
       (2) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Small Business and the Committee 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives--
       (A) a report on Federal agency compliance with the 
     requirements under such section 15(k); and
       (B) a report detailing the status of issuance by the Small 
     Business Administration of detailed guidance for the peer 
     review process of the Small Business Procurement Advisory 
     Council in order to facilitate a more in depth review of 
     Federal agency compliance with the requirements under such 
     section 15(k).
                      United States Postal Service
                   payment to the postal service fund
       For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone 
     on free and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) 
     and (d) of section 2401 of title 39, United States Code, 
     $55,235,000: Provided, That mail for overseas voting and mail 
     for the blind shall continue to be free: Provided further, 
     That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall continue 
     at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, That none 
     of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act 
     shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of 
     charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
     support enforcement agency, or any individual participating 
     in a State or local program of child support enforcement, a 
     fee for information requested or provided concerning an 
     address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none of 
     the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate 
     or close small rural and other small post offices.
                      office of inspector general
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, $250,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the 
     Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by section 
     603(b)(3) of the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act 
     (Public Law 109-435).
                        United States Tax Court
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and 
     other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,515,000, 
     of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That travel expenses of the judges shall be paid 
     upon the written certificate of the judge.
                                TITLE VI
                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT
       Sec. 601. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
     the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses 
     of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening 
     in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
       Sec. 602. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
     remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
     year, nor may
     any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly 
     so provided herein.
       Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through procurement contract 
     pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those 
     contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public 
     record and available for public inspection, except where 
     otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
     Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
       Sec. 604. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriations Act.
       Sec. 605. None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be available for any activity or for paying the salary 
     of any Government employee where funding an activity or 
     paying a salary to a Government employee would result in a 
     decision, determination, rule, regulation, or policy that 
     would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
     Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
       Sec. 606. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
     expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
     expending the assistance the entity will comply with chapter 
     83 of title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 607. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     under this Act shall be made available to any person or 
     entity that has been convicted of violating chapter 83 of 
     title 41, United States Code.
       Sec. 608. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of 
     the funds provided in this Act, provided by previous 
     appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in 
     this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
     in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees and available to 
     the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
     that: (1) creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, 
     project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel for 
     any program, project, or activity for which funds have been 
     denied or restricted by the Congress; (4) proposes to use 
     funds directed for a specific activity by the Committee on 
     Appropriations of either the House of Representatives or the 
     Senate for a different purpose; (5) augments existing 
     programs, projects, or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 
     10 percent, whichever is less; (6) reduces existing programs, 
     projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, 
     whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices, 
     programs, or activities unless prior approval is received 
     from the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That prior to any 
     significant reorganization or restructuring of offices, 
     programs, or activities, each agency or entity funded in this 
     Act shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
     further, That not later than 60 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall 
     submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate to establish the 
     baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
     authorities for the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
     That at a minimum the report shall include: (1) a table for 
     each appropriation with a separate column to display the 
     President's budget request, adjustments made by Congress, 
     adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and 
     the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table 
     for each appropriation both by object class and program, 
     project, and activity as detailed in the budget appendix for 
     the respective appropriation; and (3) an identification of 
     items of special congressional interest: Provided further, 
     That the amount appropriated or limited for salaries and 
     expenses for an agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per day 
     for each day after the required date that the report has not 
     been submitted to the Congress.
       Sec. 609. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, 
     not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining 
     available at the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropriations 
     made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2019 
     in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 
     2020, for each such account for the purposes authorized: 
     Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the Committees 
     on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds: 
     Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
     compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
       Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used by the Executive Office of the President to 
     request--
       (1) any official background investigation report on any 
     individual from the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
       (2) a determination with respect to the treatment of an 
     organization as described in section 501(c) of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
     501(a) of such Code from the Department of the Treasury or 
     the Internal Revenue Service.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
       (1) in the case of an official background investigation 
     report, if such individual has given express written consent 
     for such request not more than 6 months prior to the date of 
     such request and during the same presidential administration; 
     or
       (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
     circumstances involving national security.
       Sec. 611. The cost accounting standards promulgated under 
     chapter 15 of title 41, United States Code shall not apply 
     with respect to a contract under the Federal Employees Health 
     Benefits Program established under chapter 89 of title 5, 
     United States Code.
       Sec. 612. For the purpose of resolving litigation and 
     implementing any settlement agreements regarding the 
     nonforeign area cost-of-living allowance program, the Office 
     of Personnel Management may accept and utilize (without 
     regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel expenses 
     imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
     Office of Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
       Sec. 613. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
     available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
     expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal 
     employees health benefits program which provides any benefits 
     or coverage for abortions.
       Sec. 614. The provision of section 613 shall not apply 
     where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus 
     were carried to term, or the pregnancy is the result of an 
     act of rape or incest.
       Sec. 615. In order to promote Government access to 
     commercial information technology, the restriction on 
     purchasing nondomestic articles, materials, and supplies set 
     forth in chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code 
     (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not apply to 
     the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
     technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United 
     States Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in 
     section 103 of title 41, United States Code).
       Sec. 616. Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United 
     States Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency 
     or commission funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that 
     agency, nor may such agency or commission accept, payment or 
     reimbursement from a non-Federal entity for travel, 
     subsistence, or related expenses for the purpose of enabling 
     an officer or employee to attend and participate in any 
     meeting or similar function relating to the official duties 
     of the officer or employee when the entity offering payment 
     or reimbursement is a person or entity subject to regulation 
     by such agency or commission, or represents a person or 
     entity subject to regulation by such agency or commission, 
     unless the person or entity is an organization described in 
     section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
     exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
       Sec. 617. Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds 
     made available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
     and the Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any 
     other Act may be used for the interagency funding and 
     sponsorship of a joint advisory committee to advise on 
     emerging regulatory issues.
       Sec. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, an Executive agency covered by this Act otherwise 
     authorized to enter into contracts for either leases or the 
     construction or alteration of real property for office, 
     meeting, storage, or other space must consult with the 
     General Services Administration before issuing a solicitation 
     for offers of new leases or construction contracts, and in 
     the case of succeeding leases, before entering into 
     negotiations with the current lessor.
       (2) Any such agency with authority to enter into an 
     emergency lease may do so during any period declared by the 
     President to require emergency leasing authority with respect 
     to such agency.
       (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
     agency covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency 
     provided funds by this Act, but does not include the General 
     Services Administration or the United States Postal Service.
       Sec. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the following 
     activities the amounts required under current law:
       (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
       (2) Payments to--
       (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 
     377(o));
       (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 U.S.C. 
     376(c)); and
       (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims Judges' 
     Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
       (3) Payment of Government contributions--
       (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
     employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees Health 
     Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
       (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
     employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 87).
       (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
     increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
     and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
       (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
     Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
     provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
     84 of title 5, United States Code.
       (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any 
     amount appropriated by this section from any otherwise 
     applicable limitation on the use of funds contained in this 
     Act.
       Sec. 620. In addition to amounts made available in prior 
     fiscal years, the Public
     Company Accounting Oversight Board (Board) shall have 
     authority to obligate funds for the scholarship program 
     established by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
     2002 (Public Law 107-204) in an aggregate amount not 
     exceeding the amount of funds collected by the Board between 
     January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018, including accrued 
     interest, as a result of the assessment of monetary 
     penalties. Funds available for obligation in fiscal year 2019 
     shall remain available until expended.
       Sec. 621. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by the Federal Trade Commission to complete the draft 
     report entitled ``Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed 
     to Children: Preliminary Proposed Nutrition Principles to 
     Guide Industry Self-Regulatory Efforts'' unless the 
     Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to Children 
     complies with Executive Order No. 13563.
       Sec. 622. None of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
     Director of the Office of Personnel Management to award a 
     contract, enter an extension of, or exercise an option on a 
     contract to a contractor conducting the final quality review 
     processes for background investigation fieldwork services or 
     background investigation support services that, as of the 
     date of the award of the contract, are being conducted by 
     that contractor.
       Sec. 623. (a) The head of each executive branch agency 
     funded by this Act shall ensure that the Chief Information 
     Officer of the agency has the authority to participate in 
     decisions regarding the budget planning process related to 
     information technology.
       (b) Amounts appropriated for any executive branch agency 
     funded by this Act that are available for information 
     technology shall be allocated within the agency, consistent 
     with the provisions of appropriations Acts and budget 
     guidelines and recommendations from the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget, in such manner as specified 
     by, or approved by, the Chief Information Officer of the 
     agency in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of 
     the agency and budget officials.
       Sec. 624. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 
     44, United States Code.
       Sec. 625. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used by a governmental entity to require the disclosure by 
     a provider of electronic communication service to the public 
     or remote computing service of the contents of a wire or 
     electronic communication that is in electronic storage with 
     the provider (as such terms are defined in sections 2510 and 
     2711 of title 18, United States Code) in a manner that 
     violates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the 
     United States.
       Sec. 626. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
     used by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, 
     amend, or change the rules or regulations of the Commission 
     for universal service high-cost support for competitive 
     eligible telecommunications carriers in a way that is 
     inconsistent with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section 
     54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect 
     on July 15, 2015: Provided, That this section shall not 
     prohibit the Commission from considering, developing, or 
     adopting other support mechanisms as an alternative to 
     Mobility Fund Phase II.
       Sec. 627. No funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
     deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
     to any records, documents, or other materials available to 
     the department or agency over which that Inspector General 
     has responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to 
     such records, documents, or other materials, under any 
     provision of law, except a provision of law that expressly 
     refers to the Inspector General and expressly limits the 
     Inspector General's right of access. A department or agency 
     covered by this section shall provide its Inspector General 
     with access to all such records, documents, and other 
     materials in a timely manner. Each Inspector General shall 
     ensure compliance with statutory limitations on disclosure 
     relevant to the information provided by the establishment 
     over which that Inspector General has responsibilities under 
     the Inspector General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General 
     covered by this section shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
     requirement.
       Sec. 628. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, adjudication activities, or 
     other law enforcement- or victim assistance-related activity.
       Sec. 629. None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used by the Securities and Exchange Commission to 
     finalize, issue, or implement any rule, regulation, or order 
     regarding the disclosure of political contributions, 
     contributions to tax exempt organizations, or dues paid to 
     trade associations.
       Sec. 630. None of the funds appropriated or other-wise made 
     available by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive 
     fees for contractors whose performance has been judged to be 
     below satisfactory, behind schedule, over budget, or has 
     failed to meet the basic requirements of a contract, unless 
     the Agency determines that any such deviations are due to 
     unforeseeable events, government-driven scope changes, or are 
     not significant within the overall scope of the project and/
     or program and unless such awards or incentive fees are 
     consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
       Sec. 631. (a) None of the funds made available under this 
     Act may be used to pay for travel and conference activities 
     that result in a total cost to an Executive branch 
     department, agency, board or commission of more than $500,000 
     at any single conference unless the head of the Executive 
     branch department, agency, board, or commission determines 
     that such attendance is in the national interest and advance 
     notice is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate that includes the 
     basis of that determination.
       (b) None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
     used to pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 50 
     employees, who are stationed in the United States, at any 
     single conference occurring outside the United States unless 
     the head of the Executive branch department, agency, board, 
     or commission determines that such attendance is in the 
     national interest and advance notice is transmitted to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
     and the Senate that includes the basis of that determination.
       Sec. 632. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under this Act may be used by departments and 
     agencies funded in this Act to acquire telecommunications 
     equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company, ZTE 
     Corporation or a high-impact or moderate-impact information 
     system, as defined for security categorization in the 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) 
     Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 199, 
     ``Standards for Security Categorization of Federal 
     Information and Information Systems'' unless the agency has--
       (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
     systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
     acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
     information systems within the Federal Government;
       (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
     awardee against available and relevant threat information 
     provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
     appropriate agencies; and
       (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted 
     an assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
     associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
     risk associated with such system being produced, 
     manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities identified 
     by the United States Government as posing a cyber threat, 
     including but not limited to, those that may be owned, 
     directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of China, 
     the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's 
     Republic of Korea, or the Russian Federation.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact 
     or moderate impact information system reviewed and assessed 
     under subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity 
     described in subsection (a) has--
       (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
     risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
     identified risks;
       (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation, that the acquisition of such system 
     is in the vital national security interest of the United 
     States; and
       (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     in a manner that identifies the system intended for 
     acquisition and a detailed description of the mitigation 
     strategies identified in (1), provided that such report may 
     include a classified annex as necessary.
       Sec. 633. None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used for airline accommodations for any officer (as 
     defined in section 2104 of title 5, United States Code) or 
     employee (as defined in section 2105 of title 5, United 
     States Code) in the executive branch that are not coach-class 
     accommodations (which term is defined, for purposes of this 
     section, as the basic class of accommodation by airlines that 
     is normally the lowest fare offered regardless of airline 
     terminology used, and (as referred to by airlines) may 
     include tourist class or economy class, as well as single 
     class when the airline offers only one class of 
     accommodations to all travelers), unless such accommodations 
     are consistent with section 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of 
     this Act) and, with respect to subsection (a)(3) and (b)(2) 
     of such section, written authorization is provided by the 
     head of the agency (or, if the accommodations are for the 
     head of the agency, by the Inspector General of the agency).
       Sec. 634. The Comptroller General of the United States, in 
     consultation with relevant regulators, shall conduct a study 
     that--
       (1) examines the financial impact of the mineral pyrrhotite 
     in concrete home foundations; and
       (2) provides recommendations on regulatory and legislative 
     actions needed to help
     mitigate the financial impact described in paragraph (1) on 
     banks, mortgage lenders, tax revenues, and homeowners.
                               TITLE VII
                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE
                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 701. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
     United States receiving appropriated funds under this or any 
     other Act for fiscal year 2019 shall obligate or expend any 
     such funds, unless such department, agency, or 
     instrumentality has in place, and will continue to administer 
     in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that all 
     of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, 
     or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the 
     Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers 
     and employees of such department, agency, or instrumentality.
       Sec. 702. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the 
     maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
     accordance with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States 
     Code, for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle 
     (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law enforcement vehicles, 
     protective vehicles, and undercover surveillance vehicles), 
     is hereby fixed at $19,947 except station wagons for which 
     the maximum shall be $19,997: Provided, That these limits may 
     be exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-type vehicles: 
     Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section 
     may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or 
     hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
     provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, 
     Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, 
     That the limits set forth in this section may be exceeded by 
     the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles 
     acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of 
     comparable conventionally fueled vehicles: Provided further, 
     That the limits set forth in this section shall not apply to 
     any vehicle that is a commercial item and which operates on 
     alternative fuel, including but not limited to electric, 
     plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.
       Sec. 703. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
     independent establishments for the current fiscal year 
     available for expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the 
     activity concerned, are hereby made available for quarters 
     allowances and cost-of-living allowances, in accordance with 
     5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
       Sec. 704. Unless otherwise specified in law during the 
     current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained 
     in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the 
     compensation of any officer or employee of the Government of 
     the United States (including any agency the majority of the 
     stock of which is owned by the Government of the United 
     States) whose post of duty is in the continental United 
     States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United 
     States; (2) is a person who is lawfully admitted for 
     permanent residence and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 
     8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is admitted as a 
     refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 8 
     U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration of intention to 
     become a lawful permanent resident and then a citizen when 
     eligible; or (4) is a person who owes allegiance to the 
     United States: Provided, That for purposes of this section, 
     affidavits signed by any such person shall be considered 
     prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section 
     with respect to his or her status are being complied with: 
     Provided further, That for purposes of subsections (2) and 
     (3) such affidavits shall be submitted prior to employment 
     and updated thereafter as necessary: Provided further, That 
     any person making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a 
     felony, and upon conviction, shall be fined no more than 
     $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both: 
     Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in 
     addition to, and not in substitution for, any other 
     provisions of existing law: Provided further, That any 
     payment made to any officer or employee contrary to the 
     provisions of this section shall be recoverable in action by 
     the Federal Government: Provided further, That this section 
     shall not apply to any person who is an officer or employee 
     of the Government of the United States on the date of 
     enactment of this Act, or to international broadcasters 
     employed by the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to 
     temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
     employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a 
     result of emergencies: Provided further, That this section 
     does not apply to the employment as Wildland firefighters for 
     not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens employed by the 
     Department of the Interior or the USDA Forest Service 
     pursuant to an agreement with another country.
       Sec. 705. Appropriations available to any department or 
     agency during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, 
     including maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be 
     available for payment to the General Services Administration 
     for charges for space and services and those expenses of 
     renovation and alteration of buildings and facilities which 
     constitute public improvements performed in accordance with 
     the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the Public 
     Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other 
     applicable law.
       Sec. 706. In addition to funds provided in this or any 
     other Act, all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and 
     use funds resulting from the sale of materials, including 
     Federal records disposed of pursuant to a records schedule 
     recovered through recycling or waste prevention programs. 
     Such funds shall be available until expended for the 
     following purposes:
       (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
     recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13693 
     (March 19, 2015), including any such programs adopted prior 
     to the effective date of the Executive order.
       (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
     including, but not limited to, the development and 
     implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
     prevention programs.
       (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
     deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
       Sec. 707. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
     administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the 
     corporations and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, 
     United States Code, shall be available, in addition to 
     objects for which such funds are otherwise available, for 
     rent in the District of Columbia; services in accordance with 
     5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this head, all 
     the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
     expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the 
     Act by which they are made available: Provided, That in the 
     event any functions budgeted as administrative expenses are 
     subsequently transferred to or paid from other funds, the 
     limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
     correspondingly reduced.
       Sec. 708. No part of any appropriation contained in this or 
     any other Act shall be available for interagency financing of 
     boards (except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, 
     councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not they 
     are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and 
     specific statutory approval to receive financial support from 
     more than one agency or instrumentality.
       Sec. 709. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
     provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to 
     implement, administer, or enforce any regulation which has 
     been disapproved pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted 
     in accordance with the applicable law of the United States.
       Sec. 710. During the period in which the head of any 
     department or agency, or any other officer or civilian 
     employee of the Federal Government appointed by the President 
     of the United States, holds office, no funds may be obligated 
     or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or redecorate the 
     office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
     employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
     any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
     redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate. For the purposes of this section, the term ``office'' 
     shall include the entire suite of offices assigned to the 
     individual, as well as any other space used primarily by the 
     individual or the use of which is directly controlled by the 
     individual.
       Sec. 711. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of 
     this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by 
     this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
     funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
     telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
     departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive 
     Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
       Sec. 712. (a) None of the funds made available by this or 
     any other Act may be obligated or expended by any department, 
     agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government to 
     pay the salaries or expenses of any individual appointed to a 
     position of a confidential or policy-determining character 
     that is excepted from the competitive service under section 
     3302 of title 5, United States Code, (pursuant to schedule C 
     of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
     Regulations) unless the head of the applicable department, 
     agency, or other instrumentality employing such schedule C 
     individual certifies to the Director of the Office of 
     Personnel Management that the schedule C position occupied by 
     the individual was not created solely or primarily in order 
     to detail the individual to the White House.
       (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to 
     Federal employees or members of the armed forces detailed to 
     or from an element of the intelligence community (as that 
     term is defined under section 3(4) of the National Security 
     Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
       Sec. 713. No part of any appropriation contained in this or 
     any other Act shall be available for the payment of the 
     salary of any officer or employee of the Federal Government, 
     who--
       (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
     prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
     Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
     communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
     subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
     pertaining to the employment of such other officer or 
     employee or pertaining to the department or agency of such 
     other officer or employee in any way, irrespective of whether 
     such communication or contact is at the initiative of such 
     other officer or employee or in response to the request or 
     inquiry of such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
       (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
     reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
     efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
     transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
     employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
     condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
     the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit 
     any of the foregoing actions with respect to such other 
     officer or employee, by reason of any communication or 
     contact of such other officer or employee with any Member, 
     committee, or subcommittee of the Congress as described in 
     paragraph (1).
       Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
     any other Act may be obligated or expended for any employee 
     training that--
       (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
     and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
     official duties;
       (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
     emotional response or psychological stress in some 
     participants;
       (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
     content and methods to be used in the training and written 
     end of course evaluation;
       (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
     religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
     belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
     Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
       (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
     personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
     otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing 
     directly upon the performance of official duties.
       Sec. 715. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any 
     other Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, 
     other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
     relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, and for 
     the preparation, distribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, 
     booklet, publication, radio, television, or film presentation 
     designed to support or defeat legislation pending before the 
     Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
       Sec. 716. None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
     other Act may be used by an agency to provide a Federal 
     employee's home address to any labor organization except when 
     the employee has authorized such disclosure or when such 
     disclosure has been ordered by a court of competent 
     jurisdiction.
       Sec. 717. None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used to provide any non-public information 
     such as mailing, telephone or electronic mailing lists to any 
     person or any organization outside of the Federal Government 
     without the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
     the House of Representatives and the Senate.
       Sec. 718. No part of any appropriation contained in this or 
     any other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including 
     by private contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes 
     within the United States not heretofore authorized by 
     Congress.
       Sec. 719. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
       (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
     105; and
       (2) includes a military department, as defined under 
     section 102 of such title, the United States Postal Service, 
     and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
       (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations 
     to use such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency 
     shall use official time in an honest effort to perform 
     official duties. An employee not under a leave system, 
     including a Presidential appointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 
     6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest effort and a 
     reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
     performance of official duties.
       Sec. 720. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of 
     this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by 
     this or any other Act to any department or agency, which is a 
     member of the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board 
     (FASAB), shall be available to finance an appropriate share 
     of FASAB administrative costs.
       Sec. 721. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of 
     this Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is 
     hereby authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General 
     Services Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the 
     approval of the Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget, funds made available for the current fiscal year by 
     this or any other Act, including rebates from charge card and 
     other contracts: Provided, That these funds shall be 
     administered by the Administrator of General Services to 
     support Government-wide and other multi-agency financial, 
     information technology, procurement, and other management 
     innovations, initiatives, and activities, including improving 
     coordination and reducing duplication, as approved by the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
     consultation with the appropriate interagency and multi-
     agency groups designated by the Director (including the 
     President's Management Council for overall management 
     improvement initiatives, the Chief Financial Officers Council 
     for financial management initiatives, the Chief Information 
     Officers Council for information technology initiatives, the 
     Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
     initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for 
     procurement initiatives, and the Performance Improvement 
     Council for performance improvement initiatives): Provided 
     further, That the total funds transferred or reimbursed shall 
     not exceed $15,000,000 to improve coordination, reduce 
     duplication, and for other activities related to Federal 
     Government Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C. 1120, and 
     not to exceed $17,000,000 for Government-Wide innovations, 
     initiatives, and activities: Provided further, That the funds 
     transferred to or for reimbursement of ``General Services 
     Administration, Government-wide Policy'' during fiscal year 
     2019 shall remain available for obligation through September 
     30, 2020: Provided further, That such transfers or 
     reimbursements may only be made after 15 days following 
     notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
     of Representatives and the Senate by the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget.
       Sec. 722. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
     woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal 
     building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child 
     are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.
       Sec. 723. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of 
     this Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by 
     this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
     funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and similar 
     efforts to carry out the purposes of the National Science and 
     Technology Council (authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), 
     which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or 
     entities: Provided, That the Office of Management and Budget 
     shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
     connected with the National Science and Technology Council to 
     the Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
     Science and Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation 90 days after enactment of this 
     Act.
       Sec. 724. Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
     application, form, notification, press release, or other 
     publications involving the distribution of Federal funds 
     shall comply with any relevant requirements in part 200 of 
     title 2, Code of Federal Regulations: Provided, That this 
     section shall apply to direct payments, formula funds, and 
     grants received by a State receiving Federal funds.
       Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
     Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available 
     in this or any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
       (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
     derived from any means, that includes any personally 
     identifiable information relating to an individual's access 
     to or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the 
     agency; or
       (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
     (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
     obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
     includes any personally identifiable information relating to 
     an individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental 
     Internet site.
       (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection 
     (a) shall not apply to--
       (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
     particular persons;
       (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
     information;
       (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
     supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
       (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
     system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
     site and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet 
     site services or to protecting the rights or property of the 
     provider of the Internet site.
       (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
       (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
     implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
       (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
     agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
     and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
     practices and policies and compliance with applicable 
     standards as provided in law.
       Sec. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used to enter into or renew a contract which includes 
     a provision providing prescription drug coverage, except 
     where the contract also includes a provision for 
     contraceptive coverage.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract 
     with--
       (1) any of the following religious plans:
       (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
       (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
       (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
     plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
     beliefs.
       (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into 
     or renews a contract under this section may not subject any 
     individual to discrimination on the basis that the individual 
     refuses to prescribe or otherwise provide for contraceptives 
     because such activities would be contrary to the individual's 
     religious beliefs or moral convictions.
       (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require 
     coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.
       Sec. 727. The United States is committed to ensuring the 
     health of its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic athletes, 
     and supports the strict adherence to anti-doping in
     sport through testing, adjudication, education, and research 
     as performed by nationally recognized oversight authorities.
       Sec. 728. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
     appropriated for official travel to Federal departments and 
     agencies may be used by such departments and agencies, if 
     consistent with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-
     126 regarding official travel for Government personnel, to 
     participate in the fractional aircraft ownership pilot 
     program.
       Sec. 729. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds appropriated or made available under this or any 
     other appropriations Act may be used to implement or enforce 
     restrictions or limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional 
     Fellowship Program, or to implement the proposed regulations 
     of the Office of Personnel Management to add sections 300.311 
     through 300.316 to part 300 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
     Regulations, published in the Federal Register, volume 68, 
     number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the detail of 
     executive branch employees to the legislative branch).
       Sec. 730. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     executive branch agency shall purchase, construct, or lease 
     any additional facilities, except within or contiguous to 
     existing locations, to be used for the purpose of conducting 
     Federal law enforcement training without the advance approval 
     of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
     Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the 
     temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or 
     other agreement for training which cannot be accommodated in 
     existing Center facilities.
       Sec. 731. Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none 
     of the funds provided in this or any other Act may be used by 
     an executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged news 
     story intended for broadcast or distribution in the United 
     States, unless the story includes a clear notification within 
     the text or audio of the prepackaged news story that the 
     prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
     executive branch agency.
       Sec. 732. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United 
     States Code (popularly known as the Privacy Act), and 
     regulations implementing that section.
       Sec. 733. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated 
     or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be 
     used for any Federal Government contract with any foreign 
     incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic 
     corporation under section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of such an 
     entity.
       (b) Waivers.--
       (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
     with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
     authority of such Secretary if the Secretary determines that 
     the waiver is required in the interest of national security.
       (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
     under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.
       (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
     Government contract entered into before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant 
     to such contract.
       Sec. 734. During fiscal year 2019, for each employee who--
       (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
     title 5, United States Code; or
       (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
     chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a 
     payment as an incentive to separate, the separating agency 
     shall remit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability 
     Fund an amount equal to the Office of Personnel Management's 
     average unit cost of processing a retirement claim for the 
     preceding fiscal year. Such amounts shall be available until 
     expended to the Office of Personnel Management and shall be 
     deemed to be an administrative expense under section 
     8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
       Sec. 735. (a) None of the funds made available in this or 
     any other Act may be used to recommend or require any entity 
     submitting an offer for a Federal contract to disclose any of 
     the following information as a condition of submitting the 
     offer:
       (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
     independent expenditure, or disbursement for an 
     electioneering communication that is made by the entity, its 
     officers or directors, or any of its affiliates or 
     subsidiaries to a candidate for election for Federal office 
     or to a political committee, or that is otherwise made with 
     respect to any election for Federal office.
       (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
     described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers 
     or directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
     person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
     person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
     paragraph (1).
       (b) In this section, each of the terms ``contribution'', 
     ``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', 
     ``electioneering communication'', ``candidate'', 
     ``election'', and ``Federal office'' has the meaning given 
     such term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 
     U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).
       Sec. 736. None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other Act may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait 
     of an officer or employee of the Federal government, 
     including the President, the Vice President, a member of 
     Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident Commissioner to 
     Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as defined 
     in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head 
     of an office of the legislative branch.
       Sec. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, and except as otherwise provided in this section, no 
     part of any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2019, 
     by this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing 
     rate employee described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, 
     United States Code--
       (A) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
     limitation imposed by the comparable section for the previous 
     fiscal years until the normal effective date of the 
     applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in 
     fiscal year 2019, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable 
     for the applicable grade and step of the applicable wage 
     schedule in accordance with such section; and
       (B) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
     year 2019, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
     survey adjustment, the rate payable under subparagraph (A) by 
     more than the sum of--
       (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect in fiscal year 
     2019 under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, in 
     the rates of pay under the General Schedule; and
       (ii) the difference between the overall average percentage 
     of the locality-based comparability payments taking effect in 
     fiscal year 2019 under section 5304 of such title (whether by 
     adjustment or otherwise), and the overall average percentage 
     of such payments which was effective in the previous fiscal 
     year under such section.
       (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     prevailing rate employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) 
     of section 5342(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and no 
     employee covered by section 5348 of such title, may be paid 
     during the periods for which paragraph (1) is in effect at a 
     rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
     paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.
       (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the rates payable 
     to an employee who is covered by this subsection and who is 
     paid from a schedule not in existence on September 30, 2018, 
     shall be determined under regulations prescribed by the 
     Office of Personnel Management.
       (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of 
     premium pay for employees subject to this subsection may not 
     be changed from the rates in effect on September 30, 2018, 
     except to the extent determined by the Office of Personnel 
     Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
     subsection.
       (5) This subsection shall apply with respect to pay for 
     service performed after September 30, 2018.
       (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
     (including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
     retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) 
     that requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes 
     any requirement or limitation on the basis of a rate of 
     salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay payable 
     after the application of this subsection shall be treated as 
     the rate of salary or basic pay.
       (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to 
     permit or require the payment to any employee covered by this 
     subsection at a rate in excess of the rate that would be 
     payable were this subsection not in effect.
       (8) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for 
     exceptions to the limitations imposed by this subsection if 
     the Office determines that such exceptions are necessary to 
     ensure the recruitment or retention of qualified employees.
       (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates 
     of basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in 
     fiscal year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, 
     United States Code, shall be--
       (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
     the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
     pursuant to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 
     5304 of title 5, United States Code: Provided, That 
     prevailing rate employees at locations where there are no 
     employees whose pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 
     and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and prevailing rate 
     employees described in section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United 
     States Code, shall be considered to be located in the pay 
     locality designated as ``Rest of United States'' pursuant to 
     section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of 
     this subsection; and
       (2) effective as of the first day of the first applicable 
     pay period beginning after September 30, 2018.
       Sec. 738. (a) The Vice President may not receive a pay 
     raise in calendar year 2019, notwithstanding the rate 
     adjustment made under section 104 of title 3, United States 
     Code, or any other provision of law.
       (b) An employee serving in an Executive Schedule position, 
     or in a position for which the rate of pay is fixed by 
     statute at an Executive Schedule rate, may not receive a pay 
     rate increase in calendar year 2019, notwithstanding schedule 
     adjustments made under section 5318 of title 5, United States 
     Code, or any other provision of law, except as provided in 
     subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection applies only to 
     employees who are holding a position under a political 
     appointment.
       (c) A chief of mission or ambassador at large may not 
     receive a pay rate increase in
     calendar year 2019, notwithstanding section 401 of the 
     Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) or any other 
     provision of law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), 
     or (i).
       (d) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383 of title 5, 
     United States Code, a pay rate increase may not be received 
     in calendar year 2019 (except as provided in subsection (g), 
     (h), or (i)) by--
       (1) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service 
     paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV of the 
     Executive Schedule; or
       (2) a limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee 
     in the Senior Executive Service serving under a political 
     appointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV 
     of the Executive Schedule.
       (e) Any employee paid a rate of basic pay (including any 
     locality-based payments under section 5304 of title 5, United 
     States Code, or similar authority) at or above level IV of 
     the Executive Schedule who serves under a political 
     appointment may not receive a pay rate increase in calendar 
     year 2019, notwithstanding any other provision of law, except 
     as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection 
     does not apply to employees in the General Schedule pay 
     system or the Foreign Service pay system, or to employees 
     appointed under section 3161 of title 5, United States Code, 
     or to employees in another pay system whose position would be 
     classified at GS-15 or below if chapter 51 of title 5, United 
     States Code, applied to them.
       (f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e) shall prevent 
     employees who do not serve under a political appointment from 
     receiving pay increases as otherwise provided under 
     applicable law.
       (g) A career appointee in the Senior Executive Service who 
     receives a Presidential appointment and who makes an election 
     to retain Senior Executive Service basic pay entitlements 
     under section 3392 of title 5, United States Code, is not 
     subject to this section.
       (h) A member of the Senior Foreign Service who receives a 
     Presidential appointment to any position in the executive 
     branch and who makes an election to retain Senior Foreign 
     Service pay entitlements under section 302(b) of the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) is not subject to 
     this section.
       (i) Notwithstanding subsections (b) through (e), an 
     employee in a covered position may receive a pay rate 
     increase upon an authorized movement to a different covered 
     position with higher-level duties and a pre-established 
     higher level or range of pay, except that any such increase 
     must be based on the rates of pay and applicable pay 
     limitations in effect on December 31, 2013.
       (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an 
     individual who is newly appointed to a covered position 
     during the period of time subject to this section, the 
     initial pay rate shall be based on the rates of pay and 
     applicable pay limitations in effect on December 31, 2013.
       (k) If an employee affected by subsections (b) through (e) 
     is subject to a biweekly pay period that begins in calendar 
     year 2019 but ends in calendar year 2020, the bar on the 
     employee's receipt of pay rate increases shall apply through 
     the end of that pay period.
       Sec. 739. (a) The head of any Executive branch department, 
     agency, board, commission, or office funded by this or any 
     other appropriations Act shall submit annual reports to the 
     Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity 
     without an Inspector General, regarding the costs and 
     contracting procedures related to each conference held by any 
     such department, agency, board, commission, or office during 
     fiscal year 2019 for which the cost to the United States 
     Government was more than $100,000.
       (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each 
     conference described in subsection (a) held during the 
     applicable period--
       (1) a description of its purpose;
       (2) the number of participants attending;
       (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
     Government, including--
       (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
       (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
       (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to and from 
     the conference; and
       (D) a discussion of the methodology used to determine which 
     costs relate to the conference; and
       (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
     including--
       (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive basis; 
     and
       (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted by the 
     departmental component or office in evaluating potential 
     contractors for the conference.
       (c) Within 15 days after the end of a quarter, the head of 
     any such department, agency, board, commission, or office 
     shall notify the Inspector General or senior ethics official 
     for any entity without an Inspector General, of the date, 
     location, and number of employees attending a conference held 
     by any Executive branch department, agency, board, 
     commission, or office funded by this or any other 
     appropriations Act during fiscal year 2019 for which the cost 
     to the United States Government was more than $20,000.
       (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by 
     this or any other appropriations Act may not be used for the 
     purpose of defraying the costs of a conference described in 
     subsection (c) that is not directly and programmatically 
     related to the purpose for which the grant or contract was 
     awarded, such as a conference held in connection with 
     planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine 
     purposes related to a project funded by the grant or 
     contract.
       (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
     appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference 
     activities that are not in compliance with Office of 
     Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012 
     or any subsequent revisions to that memorandum.
       Sec. 740. None of the funds made available in this or any 
     other appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, 
     or reduce funding for a program, project, or activity as 
     proposed in the President's budget request for a fiscal year 
     until such proposed change is subsequently enacted in an 
     appropriation Act, or unless such change is made pursuant to 
     the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or any other 
     appropriations Act.
       Sec. 741. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or 
     apply the rule entitled ``Competitive Area'' published by the 
     Office of Personnel Management in the Federal Register on 
     April 15, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 20180 et seq.).
       Sec. 742. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this or any other Act may be used to begin or 
     announce a study or public-private competition regarding the 
     conversion to contractor performance of any function 
     performed by Federal employees pursuant to Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any other 
     administrative regulation, directive, or policy.
       Sec. 743. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available by this or any other Act may be available for 
     a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with an entity 
     that requires employees or contractors of such entity seeking 
     to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal 
     confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or 
     otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from 
     lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a 
     designated investigative or law enforcement representative of 
     a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such 
     information.
       (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not contravene 
     requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or 
     any other form issued by a Federal department or agency 
     governing the nondisclosure of classified information.
       Sec. 744. (a) No funds appropriated in this or any other 
     Act may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
     Standard Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any other 
     nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if such policy, 
     form, or agreement does not contain the following provisions: 
     ``These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, 
     conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, 
     rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or 
     Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) 
     communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector 
     General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or 
     mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, 
     or a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
     safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The 
     definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, 
     and liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and 
     statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and 
     are controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the 
     preceding provision of this section, a nondisclosure policy 
     form or agreement that is to be executed by a person 
     connected with the conduct of an intelligence or 
     intelligence-related activity, other than an employee or 
     officer of the United States Government, may contain 
     provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which 
     such document is to be used. Such form or agreement shall, at 
     a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
     classified information received in the course of such 
     activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the 
     United States Government. Such nondisclosure forms shall also 
     make it clear that they do not bar disclosures to Congress, 
     or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the 
     Department of Justice, that are essential to reporting a 
     substantial violation of law.
       (b) A nondisclosure agreement may continue to be 
     implemented and enforced notwithstanding subsection (a) if it 
     complies with the requirements for such agreement that were 
     in effect when the agreement was entered into.
       (c) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
     used to implement or enforce any agreement entered into 
     during fiscal year 2014 which does not contain substantially 
     similar language to that required in subsection (a).
       Sec. 745. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
     understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant 
     to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to, any corporation 
     that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been 
     assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies 
     have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being 
     paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the 
     authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where 
     the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, 
     unless a Federal agency has considered suspension or 
     debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
     that this further action is not necessary to protect the 
     interests of the Government.
       Sec. 746. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of 
     understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant 
     to, or provide a loan or loan
     guarantee to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony 
     criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 
     24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the 
     conviction, unless a Federal agency has considered suspension 
     or debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
     that this further action is not necessary to protect the 
     interests of the Government.
       Sec. 747. (a) During fiscal year 2019, on the date on which 
     a request is made for a transfer of funds in accordance with 
     section 1017 of Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
     Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs of the Senate of such request.
       (b) Any notification required by this section shall be made 
     available on the Bureau's public Web site.
       Sec. 748. If, for fiscal year 2019, new budget authority 
     provided in appropriations Acts exceeds the discretionary 
     spending limit for any category set forth in section 251(c) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985 due to estimating differences with the Congressional 
     Budget Office, an adjustment to the discretionary spending 
     limit in such category for fiscal year 2019 shall be made by 
     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the 
     amount of the excess but the total of all such adjustments 
     shall not exceed 0.2 percent of the sum of the adjusted 
     discretionary spending limits for all categories for that 
     fiscal year.
       Sec. 749. (a) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for 
     employees under the statutory pay systems that takes effect 
     in fiscal year 2019 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
     States Code, shall be an increase of 1.4 percent, and the 
     overall average percentage of the adjustments taking effect 
     in such fiscal year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such 
     title 5 shall be an increase of 0.5 percent (with 
     comparability payments to be determined and allocated among 
     pay localities by the President). All adjustments under this 
     subsection shall be effective as of the first day of the 
     first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 
     2019.
       (b) Notwithstanding section 737, the adjustment in rates of 
     basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in 
     fiscal year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, 
     United States Code, shall be no less than the percentages in 
     subsection (a) as employees in the same location whose rates 
     of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory pay 
     systems under section 5303, 5304, and 5304a of title 5, 
     United States Code. Prevailing rate employees at locations 
     where there are no employees whose pay is increased pursuant 
     to sections 5303, 5304, and 5304a of such title 5 and 
     prevailing rate employees described in section 5343(a)(5) of 
     such title 5 shall be considered to be located in the pay 
     locality designated as "Rest of U.S." pursuant to section 
     5304 of such title 5 for purposes of this subsection.
       (c) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
     appropriations, which are made to each applicable department 
     or agency for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2019.
       Sec. 750. Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in any title other than 
     title IV or VIII shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.
                               TITLE VIII
                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
                     (including transfers of funds)
       Sec. 801. There are appropriated from the applicable funds 
     of the District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for 
     making refunds and for the payment of legal settlements or 
     judgments that have been entered against the District of 
     Columbia government.
       Sec. 802. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act 
     shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes or 
     implementation of any policy including boycott designed to 
     support or defeat legislation pending before Congress or any 
     State legislature.
       Sec. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this 
     Act to the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and 
     District government agencies, that remain available for 
     obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided 
     from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States 
     derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
     funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
     expenditures for an agency through a reprogramming of funds 
     which--
       (1) creates new programs;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility 
     center;
       (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
     limited or increased under this Act;
       (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
     program, project, or responsibility center for which funds 
     have been denied or restricted;
       (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
     deferred through reprogramming;
       (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
     responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in 
     excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
       (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
     specific program, project or responsibility center,
     unless prior approval is received from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate.
       (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to 
     approve and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of 
     local funds under this title through November 7, 2019.
       Sec. 804. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act 
     may be used by the District of Columbia to provide for 
     salaries, expenses, or other costs associated with the 
     offices of United States Senator or United States 
     Representative under section 4(d) of the District of Columbia 
     Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
     Law 3-171; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
       Sec. 805. Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
     none of the funds made available by this Act or by any other 
     Act may be used to provide any officer or employee of the 
     District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless the 
     officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance 
     of the officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes 
     of this section, the term ``official duties'' does not 
     include travel between the officer's or employee's residence 
     and workplace, except in the case of--
       (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
     Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
     otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
       (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
     employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency 
     Medical Services Department who resides in the District of 
     Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
       (3) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
     Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of 
     Columbia Department of Corrections who resides in the 
     District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
       (4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
     officer or employee of the Office of the Chief Medical 
     Examiner who resides in the District of Columbia and is on 
     call 24 hours a day;
       (5) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
     Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or 
     employee of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
     Agency who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 
     24 hours a day;
       (6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
       (7) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
     Columbia.
       Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this 
     Act may be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General 
     or any other officer or entity of the District government to 
     provide assistance for any petition drive or civil action 
     which seeks to require Congress to provide for voting 
     representation in Congress for the District of Columbia.
       (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia 
     Attorney General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in 
     private lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the 
     District government regarding such lawsuits.
       Sec. 807. None of the Federal funds contained in this Act 
     may be used to distribute any needle or syringe for the 
     purpose of preventing the spread of blood borne pathogens in 
     any location that has been determined by the local public 
     health or local law enforcement authorities to be 
     inappropriate for such distribution.
       Sec. 808. Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent 
     the Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from 
     addressing the issue of the provision of contraceptive 
     coverage by health insurance plans, but it is the intent of 
     Congress that any legislation enacted on such issue should 
     include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions for 
     religious beliefs and moral convictions.
       Sec. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this 
     Act may be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, or 
     regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties 
     associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any 
     schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 
     U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
       (b) No funds available for obligation or expenditure by the 
     District of Columbia government under any authority may be 
     used to enact any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or 
     otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, 
     use, or distribution of any schedule I substance under the 
     Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any 
     tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for recreational purposes.
       Sec. 810. No funds available for obligation or expenditure 
     by the District of Columbia government under any authority 
     shall be expended for any abortion except where the life of 
     the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
     term or where the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape 
     or incest.
       Sec. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for 
     the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council of the 
     District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating 
     budget in the format of the budget that the District of 
     Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the 
     District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 
     1-204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia 
     government for fiscal year 2019 that is in the total amount 
     of the approved appropriation and that realigns all budgeted 
     data for personal services and other-than-personal services, 
     respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.
       (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which 
     the Chief Financial Officer for the District of Columbia 
     certifies that a reallocation is required to address 
     unanticipated changes in program requirements.
       Sec. 812. No later than 30 calendar days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for 
     the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate 
     committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the Council for the 
     District of Columbia, a revised appropriated funds operating 
     budget for the District of Columbia Public Schools that 
     aligns schools budgets to actual enrollment. The revised 
     appropriated funds budget shall be in the format of the 
     budget that the District of Columbia government submitted 
     pursuant to section 442 of the District of Columbia Home Rule 
     Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.42).
       Sec. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating 
     funds may be transferred to the District of Columbia's 
     enterprise and capital funds and such amounts, once 
     transferred, shall retain appropriation authority consistent 
     with the provisions of this Act.
       (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to 
     reprogram or transfer for operating expenses any local funds 
     transferred or reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal 
     years from operating funds to capital funds, and such 
     amounts, once transferred or reprogrammed, shall retain 
     appropriation authority consistent with the provisions of 
     this Act.
       (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
     reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from 
     bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for capital 
     projects.
       Sec. 814. None of the Federal funds appropriated in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year, nor may any be transferred to other 
     appropriations, unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 815. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law 
     or under this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated 
     balances remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2019 
     from appropriations of Federal funds made available for 
     salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall 
     remain available through September 30, 2020, for each such 
     account for the purposes authorized: Provided, That a request 
     shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to 
     the expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these 
     requests shall be made in compliance with reprogramming 
     guidelines outlined in section 803 of this Act.
       Sec. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2020, during a period 
     in which neither a District of Columbia continuing resolution 
     or a regular District of Columbia appropriation bill is in 
     effect, local funds are appropriated in the amount provided 
     for any project or activity for which local funds are 
     provided in the Act referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to 
     any modifications enacted by the District of Columbia as of 
     the beginning of the period during which this subsection is 
     in effect) at the rate set forth by such Act.
       (2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is the Act of the 
     Council of the District of Columbia pursuant to which a 
     proposed budget is approved for fiscal year 2020 which 
     (subject to the requirements of the District of Columbia Home 
     Rule Act) will constitute the local portion of the annual 
     budget for the District of Columbia government for fiscal 
     year 2020 for purposes of section 446 of the District of 
     Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1-204.46, D.C. Official Code).
       (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
     available--
       (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
     continuing resolution for fiscal year 2020 is in effect; or
       (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
     Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2020.
       (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided 
     under the authority and conditions as provided under this Act 
     and shall be available to the extent and in the manner that 
     would be provided by this Act.
       (d) An appropriation made by subsection (a) shall cover all 
     obligations or expenditures incurred for such project or 
     activity during the portion of fiscal year 2020 for which 
     this section applies to such project or activity.
       (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity 
     during any period of fiscal year 2020 if any other provision 
     of law (other than an authorization of appropriations)--
       (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
     grants authority for such project or activity to continue for 
     such period; or
       (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
     made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
     be granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
     period.
       (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect 
     obligations of the government of the District of Columbia 
     mandated by other law.
       Sec. 817. Except as expressly provided otherwise, any 
     reference to ``this Act'' contained in this title or in title 
     IV shall be treated as referring only to the provisions of 
     this title or of title IV.
       This division may be cited as the ``Financial Services and 
     General Government Appropriations Act, 2019''.
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
        That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Agriculture, 
     Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related 
     Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
     2019, and for other purposes, namely:
                                TITLE I
                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
                  Processing, Research, and Marketing
                        Office of the Secretary
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
     $46,532,000, of which not to exceed $5,051,000 shall be 
     available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
     exceed $800,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
     Assistant to the Secretary for Rural Development: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Rural Development mission area for salaries and expenses are 
     available to fund up to one administrative support staff for 
     the Office; not to exceed $1,496,000 shall be available for 
     the Office of Homeland Security; not to exceed $4,711,000 
     shall be available for the Office of Partnerships and Public 
     Engagement; not to exceed $23,105,000 shall be available for 
     the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, of 
     which $22,301,000 shall be available for Departmental 
     Administration to provide for necessary expenses for 
     management support services to offices of the Department and 
     for general administration, security, repairs and 
     alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses 
     not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical 
     and efficient work of the Department: Provided further, That 
     funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Administration mission area for salaries and expenses are 
     available to fund up to one administrative support staff for 
     the Office; not to exceed $3,869,000 shall be available for 
     the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations 
     to carry out the programs funded by this Act, including 
     programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison 
     within the executive branch; and not to exceed $7,500,000 
     shall be available for the Office of Communications: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to 
     transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office of 
     the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the 
     Secretary: Provided further, That no appropriation for any 
     office shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 
     percent: Provided further, That not to exceed $11,000 of the 
     amount made available under this paragraph for the immediate 
     Office of the Secretary shall be available for official 
     reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
     for, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That 
     the amount made available under this heading for Departmental 
     Administration shall be reimbursed from applicable 
     appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
     the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558: 
     Provided further, That funds made available under this 
     heading for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
     Congressional Relations may be transferred to agencies of the 
     Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain 
     personnel at the agency level: Provided further, That no 
     funds made available under this heading for the Office of 
     Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations may be 
     obligated after 30 days from the date of enactment of this 
     Act, unless the Secretary has notified the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the allocation 
     of these funds by USDA agency.
                          Executive Operations
                     office of the chief economist
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief 
     Economist, $19,786,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be for 
     grants or cooperative agreements for policy research under 7 
     U.S.C. 3155.
                     office of hearings and appeals
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Hearings and 
     Appeals, $15,222,000.
                 office of budget and program analysis
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
     Analysis, $9,525,000.
                Office of the Chief Information Officer
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief 
     Information Officer, $63,950,000, of which not less than 
     $38,000,000 is for cybersecurity requirements of the 
     department.
                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
     Officer, $6,028,000.
           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
     Secretary for Civil Rights, $901,000: Provided, That funds 
     made available by this Act to an agency in the Civil Rights 
     mission area for salaries and expenses are available to fund 
     up to one administrative support staff for the Office.
                         Office of Civil Rights
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
     $24,206,000.
                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to 
     Public Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 
     delegation of authority from the Administrator of
     General Services to the Department of Agriculture under 40 
     U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the Department 
     which are included in this Act, and for alterations and other 
     actions needed for the Department and its agencies to 
     consolidate unneeded space into configurations suitable for 
     release to the Administrator of General Services, and for the 
     operation, maintenance, improvement, and repair of 
     Agriculture buildings and facilities, and for related costs, 
     $58,330,000, to remain available until expended.
                     Hazardous Materials Management
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to 
     comply with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and 
     the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et 
     seq.), $3,503,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to 
     the Department for Hazardous Materials Management may be 
     transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
     meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on 
     Federal and non-Federal lands.
                      Office of Inspector General
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000, 
     including such sums as may be necessary for contracting and 
     other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
     pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.), and including not to 
     exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
     expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended 
     under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-452; 5 U.S.C. 
     App.) and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food Act of 
     1981 (Public Law 97-98).
                     Office of the General Counsel
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the General 
     Counsel, $45,146,000.
                            Office of Ethics
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $4,136,000.
  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Research, Education, and Economics, $800,000: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Research, Education, and Economics mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative 
     support staff for the Office.
                       Economic Research Service
       For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
     $86,757,000.
                National Agricultural Statistics Service
       For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural 
     Statistics Service, $174,767,000, of which up to $45,300,000 
     shall be available until expended for the Census of 
     Agriculture: Provided, That amounts made available for the 
     Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct Current 
     Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and 
     (f).
                     Agricultural Research Service
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service 
     and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
     purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land 
     exchanges where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value 
     or shall be equalized by a payment of money to the grantor 
     which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total value of the 
     land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
     $1,300,966,000, of which $10,600,000, to remain available 
     until expended, shall be used to carry out the science 
     program at the National Bio- and Agro-defense Facility 
     located in Manhattan, Kansas; of which not less than 
     $2,000,000 shall be available to carry out the dryland 
     agriculture research program; and of which not less than 
     $7,000,000 shall be available for purposes of entering into a 
     management, operations, and research support contract to 
     expedite the hiring of a capable workforce for the 
     commissioning of the Central Utility Plant and in support of 
     operations and management of the National Bio- and Agro-
     defense Facility: Provided, That appropriations hereunder 
     shall be available for the operation and maintenance of 
     aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed one for 
     replacement only: Provided further, That appropriations 
     hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for 
     the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
     improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of 
     constructing any one building shall not exceed $500,000, 
     except for headhouses or greenhouses which shall each be 
     limited to $1,800,000, except for 10 buildings to be 
     constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $1,100,000 
     each, and except for two buildings to be constructed at a 
     cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the cost of altering 
     any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
     percent of the current replacement value of the building or 
     $500,000, whichever is greater: Provided further, That 
     appropriations hereunder shall be available for entering into 
     lease agreements at any Agricultural Research Service 
     location for the construction of a research facility by a 
     non-Federal entity for use by the Agricultural Research 
     Service and a condition of the lease shall be that any 
     facility shall be owned, operated, and maintained by the non-
     Federal entity and shall be removed upon the expiration or 
     termination of the lease agreement: Provided further, That 
     the limitations on alterations contained in this Act shall 
     not apply to modernization or replacement of existing 
     facilities at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That 
     appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting 
     easements at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center: 
     Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not 
     apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act 
     of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That 
     appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting 
     easements at any Agricultural Research Service location for 
     the construction of a research facility by a non-Federal 
     entity for use by, and acceptable to, the Agricultural 
     Research Service and a condition of the easements shall be 
     that upon completion the facility shall be accepted by the 
     Secretary, subject to the availability of funds herein, if 
     the Secretary finds that acceptance of the facility is in the 
     interest of the United States: Provided further, That funds 
     may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
     organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing 
     or operating any research facility or research project of the 
     Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.
               National Institute of Food and Agriculture
                   research and education activities
       For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for 
     cooperative forestry and other research, for facilities, and 
     for other expenses, $898,535,000, which shall be for the 
     purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the table titled 
     ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Research and 
     Education Activities'' in the explanatory statement described 
     in section 3 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
     consolidated Act): Provided, That funds for research grants 
     for 1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 
     institutions, capacity building for non-land-grant colleges 
     of agriculture, the agriculture and food research initiative, 
     veterinary medicine loan repayment, multicultural scholars, 
     graduate fellowship and institution challenge grants, and 
     grants management systems shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided further, That each institution eligible to 
     receive funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less 
     than $1,000,000: Provided further, That funds for education 
     grants for Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving 
     institutions be made available to individual eligible 
     institutions or consortia of eligible institutions with funds 
     awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii: 
     Provided further, That funds for education grants for 1890 
     institutions shall be made available to institutions eligible 
     to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222: Provided 
     further, That not more than 5 percent of the amounts made 
     available by this or any other Act to carry out the 
     Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 
     450i(b) may be retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     pay administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in 
     carrying out that authority.
              native american institutions endowment fund
       For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund 
     authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), 
     $11,880,000, to remain available until expended.
                          extension activities
       For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto 
     Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern 
     Marianas, and American Samoa, $486,692,000, which shall be 
     for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the table 
     titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, 
     Extension Activities'' in the explanatory statement described 
     in section 3 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
     consolidated Act): Provided, That funds for facility 
     improvements at 1890 institutions shall remain available 
     until expended: Provided further, That institutions eligible 
     to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for cooperative 
     extension receive no less than $1,000,000: Provided further, 
     That funds for cooperative extension under sections 3(b) and 
     (c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and 
     section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471 shall be available for 
     retirement and employees' compensation costs for extension 
     agents.
                         integrated activities
       For the integrated research, education, and extension 
     grants programs, including necessary administrative expenses, 
     $38,000,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the 
     amounts, specified in the table titled ``National Institute 
     of Food and Agriculture, Integrated Activities'' in the 
     explanatory statement described in section 3 (in the matter 
     preceding division A of this consolidated Act): Provided, 
     That funds for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     indirect costs shall not be charged against any Extension 
     Implementation Program Area grant awarded under the Crop 
     Protection/Pest Management Program (7 U.S.C. 7626).
  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $901,000: Provided, 
     That
     funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Marketing and Regulatory Programs mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative 
     support staff for the Office.
               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health 
     Inspection Service, including up to $30,000 for 
     representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to the 
     Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), $1,000,493,000, 
     of which $470,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
     be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
     diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and 
     birds (``contingency fund'') to the extent necessary to meet 
     emergency conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be used for the cotton pests 
     program for cost share purposes or for debt retirement for 
     active eradication zones; of which $37,857,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be for Animal Health 
     Technical Services; of which $705,000 shall be for activities 
     under the authority of the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as 
     amended (15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $62,840,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be used to support avian 
     health; of which $4,251,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be for information technology infrastructure; 
     of which $178,170,000, to remain available until expended, 
     shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, $11,826,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be for field crop and 
     rangeland ecosystem pests; of which $16,523,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be for zoonotic disease 
     management; of which $41,466,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be for emergency preparedness and response; 
     of which $60,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
     shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be for the National 
     Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain 
     available until expended, shall be for the scrapie program 
     for indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended, shall be for the wildlife damage management 
     program for aviation safety: Provided, That of amounts 
     available under this heading for wildlife services methods 
     development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided further, That of amounts available under 
     this heading for the screwworm program, $4,990,000 shall 
     remain available until expended; of which $13,600,000, to 
     remain available until expended, shall be used to carry out 
     the science program at the National Bio- and Agro-defense 
     Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas: Provided further, That 
     no funds shall be used to formulate or administer a 
     brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal year 
     that does not require minimum matching by the States of at 
     least 40 percent: Provided further, That this appropriation 
     shall be available for the operation and maintenance of 
     aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed five, of which two 
     shall be for replacement only: Provided further, That in 
     addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the 
     agricultural production industry of the United States, the 
     Secretary may transfer from other appropriations or funds 
     available to the agencies or corporations of the Department 
     such sums as may be deemed necessary, to be available only in 
     such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious 
     or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or 
     plants, and for expenses in accordance with sections 10411 
     and 10417 of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 
     and 8316) and sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unexpended balances of 
     funds transferred for such emergency purposes in the 
     preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred 
     amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
     shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
     repair and alteration of leased buildings and improvements, 
     but unless otherwise provided the cost of altering any one 
     building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent 
     of the current replacement value of the building.
       In fiscal year 2019, the agency is authorized to collect 
     fees to cover the total costs of providing technical 
     assistance, goods, or services requested by States, other 
     political subdivisions, domestic and international 
     organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, provided 
     that such fees are structured such that any entity's 
     liability for such fees is reasonably based on the technical 
     assistance, goods, or services provided to the entity by the 
     agency, and such fees shall be reimbursed to this account, to 
     remain available until expended, without further 
     appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
     services.
                        buildings and facilities
       For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
     environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, 
     and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized 
     by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of land as authorized by 7 
     U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000, to remain available until expended.
                     Agricultural Marketing Service
                           marketing services
       For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing 
     Service, $155,845,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be available 
     for the purposes of section 12306 of Public Law 113-79; and 
     of which $7,000,000 shall be available for marketing 
     activities authorized under section 204(b) of the 
     Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)) to 
     provide to State departments of agriculture, State 
     cooperative extension services, institutions of higher 
     education, and nonprofit organizations grants to carry out 
     programs and provide technical assistance to promote 
     innovation, process improvement, and marketing relating to 
     dairy products: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
     available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration 
     and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
     altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
     exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
     building.
       Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization 
     activities, as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 
     U.S.C. 9701).
                 limitation on administrative expenses
       Not to exceed $60,982,000 (from fees collected) shall be 
     obligated during the current fiscal year for administrative 
     expenses: Provided, That if crop size is understated and/or 
     other uncontrollable events occur, the agency may exceed this 
     limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)
                     (including transfers of funds)
       Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 
     1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity 
     program expenses as authorized therein, and other related 
     operating expenses, except for: (1) transfers to the 
     Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish and Wildlife 
     Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a et seq.); (2) transfers otherwise 
     provided in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,489,000 for 
     formulation and administration of marketing agreements and 
     orders pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act 
     of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 1961 (Public Law 87-128).
                   payments to states and possessions
       For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and 
     departments of markets, and similar agencies for marketing 
     activities under section 204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing 
     Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), $1,235,000.
        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses
       Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be 
     obligated during the current fiscal year for inspection and 
     weighing services: Provided, That if grain export activities 
     require additional supervision and oversight, or other 
     uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation may be exceeded 
     by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Food Safety, $800,000: Provided, That funds made 
     available by this Act to an agency in the Food Safety mission 
     area for salaries and expenses are available to fund up to 
     one administrative support staff for the Office.
                   Food Safety and Inspection Service
       For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by 
     the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products 
     Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act, 
     including not to exceed $10,000 for representation allowances 
     and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved 
     August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,049,344,000; and in 
     addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from 
     fees collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
     authorized by section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Provided, 
     That funds provided for the Public Health Data Communication 
     Infrastructure system shall remain available until expended: 
     Provided further, That no fewer than 148 full-time equivalent 
     positions shall be employed during fiscal year 2019 for 
     purposes dedicated solely to inspections and enforcement 
     related to the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 
     et seq.): Provided further, That the Food Safety and 
     Inspection Service shall continue implementation of section 
     11016 of Public Law 110-246 as further clarified by the 
     amendments made in section 12106 of Public Law 113-79: 
     Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available 
     pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
     of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any 
     one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
     percent of the current replacement value of the building.
                                TITLE II
               FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS
   Office of the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Farm Production and Conservation, $901,000: Provided, 
     That funds made available by this Act to an agency in the 
     Farm Production and Conservation mission area for salaries 
     and expenses are available to fund up to one administrative 
     support staff for the Office.
            Farm Production and Conservation Business Center
       For necessary expenses of the Farm Production and 
     Conservation Business Center, $1,028,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That $149,000 of amounts
     appropriated for the current fiscal year pursuant to section 
     1241(a) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 1985 
     (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) shall be transferred to and merged with 
     this account.
                          Farm Service Agency
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, 
     $1,202,146,000: Provided, That not more than 50 percent of 
     the $44,691,000 made available under this heading for 
     information technology related to farm program delivery, 
     including the Modernize and Innovate the Delivery of 
     Agricultural Systems and other farm program delivery systems, 
     may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and 
     receives written or electronic notification of receipt from 
     such Committees of, a plan for expenditure that (1) 
     identifies for each project/investment over $25,000 (a) the 
     functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and 
     the mission benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated 
     lifecycle cost, including estimates for development as well 
     as maintenance and operations, and (c) key milestones to be 
     met; (2) demonstrates that each project/investment is, (a) 
     consistent with the Farm Service Agency Information 
     Technology Roadmap, (b) being managed in accordance with 
     applicable lifecycle management policies and guidance, and 
     (c) subject to the applicable Department's capital planning 
     and investment control requirements; and (3) has been 
     reviewed by the Government Accountability Office and approved 
     by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress: Provided further, That the agency shall submit a 
     report by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 
     to the Committees on Appropriations and the Government 
     Accountability Office, that identifies for each project/
     investment that is operational (a) current performance 
     against key indicators of customer satisfaction, (b) current 
     performance of service level agreements or other technical 
     metrics, (c) current performance against a pre-established 
     cost baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of current and 
     planned spending on operational enhancements or upgrades, and 
     (e) an assessment of whether the investment continues to meet 
     business needs as intended as well as alternatives to the 
     investment: Provided further, That the Secretary is 
     authorized to use the services, facilities, and authorities 
     (but not the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corporation to 
     make program payments for all programs administered by the 
     Agency: Provided further, That other funds made available to 
     the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and 
     merged with this account: Provided further, That funds made 
     available to county committees shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided further, That none of the funds available 
     to the Farm Service Agency shall be used to close Farm 
     Service Agency county offices: Provided further, That none of 
     the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be used 
     to permanently relocate county based employees that would 
     result in an office with two or fewer employees without prior 
     notification and approval of the Committees on Appropriations 
     of both Houses of Congress.
                         state mediation grants
       For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural 
     Credit Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), 
     $3,904,000.
               grassroots source water protection program
       For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
     protection activities under section 1240O of the Food 
     Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $6,500,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
                        dairy indemnity program
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity 
     payments to dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products 
     under a dairy indemnity program, such sums as may be 
     necessary, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     such program is carried out by the Secretary in the same 
     manner as the dairy indemnity program described in the 
     Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
     and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 
     106-387, 114 Stat. 1549A-12).
           agricultural credit insurance fund program account
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
     and guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and 
     operating (7 U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 
     U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 
     U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans (7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed 
     conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), and Indian highly 
     fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be available from 
     funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: 
     $2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
     $1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; 
     $1,960,000,000 for unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans 
     and $1,530,000,000 for direct operating loans; emergency 
     loans, $37,668,000; Indian tribe land acquisition loans, 
     $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, $150,000,000; 
     Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and for 
     boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000: Provided, 
     That the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll 
     weevil for the purpose of boll weevil eradication program 
     loans.
       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, 
     including the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 
     502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm 
     operating loans, $59,670,000 for direct operating loans, 
     $21,168,000 for unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans, 
     emergency loans, $1,567,000 and $2,134,000 for Indian highly 
     fractionated land loans to remain available until expended.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $325,068,000: 
     Provided, That of this amount, $314,998,000 shall be 
     transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
     Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses'', of which $8,000,000 
     shall be available until September 30, 2020.
       Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit 
     Insurance Program Account for farm ownership, operating and 
     conservation direct loans and guaranteed loans may be 
     transferred among these programs: Provided, That the 
     Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are 
     notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
                         Risk Management Agency
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, 
     $74,829,000: Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses, 
     as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).
                 Natural Resources Conservation Service
                        conservation operations
       For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of 
     the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including 
     preparation of conservation plans and establishment of 
     measures to conserve soil and water (including farm 
     irrigation and land drainage and such special measures for 
     soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
     floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control 
     agricultural related pollutants); operation of conservation 
     plant materials centers; classification and mapping of soil; 
     dissemination of information; acquisition of lands, water, 
     and interests therein for use in the plant materials program 
     by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost not to 
     exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
     428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of 
     permanent and temporary buildings; and operation and 
     maintenance of aircraft, $879,107,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided, That appropriations 
     hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for 
     construction and improvement of buildings and public 
     improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost 
     of alterations and improvements to other buildings and other 
     public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided 
     further, That when buildings or other structures are erected 
     on non-Federal land, that the right to use such land is 
     obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, 
     That of the amounts made available under this heading, 
     $5,600,000, shall remain available until expended for the 
     authorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-1009 for 
     authorized ongoing watershed projects with a primary purpose 
     of providing water to rural communities.
               watershed and flood prevention operations
       For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, 
     including but not limited to surveys and investigations, 
     engineering operations, works of improvement, and changes in 
     use of land, in accordance with the Watershed Protection and 
     Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-1009) and 
     in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
     activities of the Department, $150,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That for funds provided 
     by this Act or any other prior Act, the limitation regarding 
     the size of the watershed or subwatershed exceeding two 
     hundred and fifty thousand acres in which such activities can 
     be undertaken shall only apply for activities undertaken for 
     the primary purpose of flood prevention (including structural 
     and land treatment measures): Provided further, That of the 
     amounts made available under this heading, $50,000,000 shall 
     be allocated to projects and activities that can commence 
     promptly following enactment; that address regional 
     priorities for flood prevention, agricultural water 
     management, inefficient irrigation systems, fish and wildlife 
     habitat, or watershed protection; or that address authorized 
     ongoing projects under the authorities of section 13 of the 
     Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78-534) 
     with a primary purpose of watershed protection by preventing 
     floodwater damage and stabilizing stream channels, 
     tributaries, and banks to reduce erosion and sediment 
     transport.
                              CORPORATIONS
       The following corporations and agencies are hereby 
     authorized to make expenditures, within the limits of funds 
     and borrowing authority available to each such corporation or 
     agency and in accord with law, and to make contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
     provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control 
     Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set 
     forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
     corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided.
                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund
       For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal 
     Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C.
     1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
     until expended.
                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund
                 reimbursement for net realized losses
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary 
     to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net 
     realized losses sustained, but not previously reimbursed, 
     pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 1961 (15 
     U.S.C. 713a-11): Provided, That of the funds available to the 
     Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of the 
     Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for 
     the conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural 
     Service, up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by 
     the Foreign Agricultural Service for information resource 
     management activities of the Foreign Agricultural Service 
     that are not related to Commodity Credit Corporation 
     business.
                       hazardous waste management
                        (limitation on expenses)
       For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit 
     Corporation shall not expend more than $5,000,000 for site 
     investigation and cleanup expenses, and operations and 
     maintenance expenses to comply with the requirement of 
     section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
     section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 6961).
                               TITLE III
                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
                           Rural Development
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration 
     and implementation of Rural Development programs, including 
     activities with institutions concerning the development and 
     operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative 
     agreements; $232,835,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading 
     may be used for advertising and promotional activities that 
     support Rural Development programs: Provided further, That in 
     addition to any other funds appropriated for purposes 
     authorized by section 502(i) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
     U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts collected under such section 
     will immediately be credited to this account and will remain 
     available until expended for such purposes.
                         Rural Housing Service
              rural housing insurance fund program account
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
     and guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing 
     Act of 1949, to be available from funds in the rural housing 
     insurance fund, as follows: $1,100,000,000 shall be for 
     direct loans and $24,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized 
     guaranteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 housing repair 
     loans; $40,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
     $230,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing 
     loans; $10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing 
     acquired property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help 
     housing land development loans; and $5,000,000 for section 
     524 site development loans.
       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the 
     cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 
     loans, $53,900,000 shall be for direct loans; section 504 
     housing repair loans, $3,419,000; section 523 self-help 
     housing land development loans, $431,000; section 524 site 
     development loans, $176,000; and repair, rehabilitation, and 
     new construction of section 515 rental housing, $9,484,000: 
     Provided, That to support the loan program level for section 
     538 guaranteed loans made available under this heading the 
     Secretary may charge or adjust any fees to cover the 
     projected cost of such loan guarantees pursuant to the 
     provisions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et 
     seq.), and the interest on such loans may not be subsidized: 
     Provided further, That applicants in communities that have a 
     current rural area waiver under section 541 of the Housing 
     Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) shall be treated as living in a 
     rural area for purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans 
     provided under this heading: Provided further, That of the 
     amounts available under this paragraph for section 502 direct 
     loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct 
     loans for individuals whose homes will be built pursuant to a 
     program funded with a mutual and self-help housing grant 
     authorized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949 until 
     June 1, 2019: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     implement provisions to provide incentives to nonprofit 
     organizations and public housing authorities to facilitate 
     the acquisition of Rural Housing Service (RHS) multifamily 
     housing properties by such nonprofit organizations and public 
     housing authorities that commit to keep such properties in 
     the RHS multifamily housing program for a period of time as 
     determined by the Secretary, with such incentives to include, 
     but not be limited to, the following: allow such nonprofit 
     entities and public housing authorities to earn a Return on 
     Investment on their own resources to include proceeds from 
     low income housing tax credit syndication, own contributions, 
     grants, and developer loans at favorable rates and terms, 
     invested in a deal; and allow reimbursement of organizational 
     costs associated with owner's oversight of asset referred to 
     as ``Asset Management Fee'' of up to $7,500 per property.
       In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and 
     contracts, as authorized by sections 514 and 516 of the 
     Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $14,281,000, to 
     remain available until expended, for direct farm labor 
     housing loans and domestic farm labor housing grants and 
     contracts: Provided, That any balances available for the Farm 
     Labor Program Account shall be transferred to and merged with 
     this account.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $412,254,000 
     shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
     ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.
                       rental assistance program
       For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed 
     pursuant to the authority under section 521(a)(2) of the 
     Housing Act of 1949 or agreements entered into in lieu of 
     debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
     authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 
     1949, $1,331,400,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be available 
     until September 30, 2020; and in addition such sums as may be 
     necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to 
     liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry 
     out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of 
     the Act: Provided, That rental assistance agreements entered 
     into or renewed during the current fiscal year shall be 
     funded for a one-year period: Provided further, That any 
     unexpended balances remaining at the end of such one-year 
     agreements may be transferred and used for purposes of any 
     debt reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation of any 
     existing projects; preservation; and rental assistance 
     activities authorized under title V of the Act: Provided 
     further, That rental assistance provided under agreements 
     entered into prior to fiscal year 2019 for a farm labor 
     multi-family housing project financed under section 514 or 
     516 of the Act may not be recaptured for use in another 
     project until such assistance has remained unused for a 
     period of 12 consecutive months, if such project has a 
     waiting list of tenants seeking such assistance or the 
     project has rental assistance eligible tenants who are not 
     receiving such assistance: Provided further, That such 
     recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent 
     practicable, be applied to another farm labor multi-family 
     housing project financed under section 514 or 516 of the Act: 
     Provided further, That except as provided in the third 
     proviso under this heading and notwithstanding any other 
     provision of the Act, the Secretary may recapture rental 
     assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to 
     fiscal year 2019 for a project that the Secretary determines 
     no longer needs rental assistance and use such recaptured 
     funds for current needs.
          multi-family housing revitalization program account
       For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under 
     section 542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding 
     subsection (b) of such section, and for additional costs to 
     conduct a demonstration program for the preservation and 
     revitalization of multi-family rental housing properties 
     described in this paragraph, $50,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That of the funds made available 
     under this heading, $26,000,000, shall be available for rural 
     housing vouchers to any low-income household (including those 
     not receiving rental assistance) residing in a property 
     financed with a section 515 loan which has been prepaid after 
     September 30, 2005: Provided further, That the amount of such 
     voucher shall be the difference between comparable market 
     rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent for 
     such unit: Provided further, That funds made available for 
     such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of annual 
     appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary shall, 
     to the maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers 
     with current regulations and administrative guidance 
     applicable to section 8 housing vouchers administered by the 
     Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: 
     Provided further, That if the Secretary determines that the 
     amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act 
     is not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds 
     for the demonstration program for the preservation and 
     revitalization of multi-family rental housing properties 
     described in this paragraph: Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under this heading, $24,000,000 shall be 
     available for a demonstration program for the preservation 
     and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 multi-
     family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
     multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems 
     appropriate, expressly for the purposes of ensuring the 
     project has sufficient resources to preserve the project for 
     the purpose of providing safe and affordable housing for low-
     income residents and farm laborers including reducing or 
     eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, subordinating, 
     reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
     assistance including advances, payments and incentives 
     (including the ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns 
     on investment) required by the Secretary: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall as part of the preservation and 
     revitalization agreement obtain
     a restrictive use agreement consistent with the terms of the 
     restructuring: Provided further, That if the Secretary 
     determines that additional funds for vouchers described in 
     this paragraph are needed, funds for the preservation and 
     revitalization demonstration program may be used for such 
     vouchers: Provided further, That if Congress enacts 
     legislation to permanently authorize a multi-family rental 
     housing loan restructuring program similar to the 
     demonstration program described herein, the Secretary may use 
     funds made available for the demonstration program under this 
     heading to carry out such legislation with the prior approval 
     of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress: Provided further, That in addition to any other 
     available funds, the Secretary may expend not more than 
     $1,000,000 total, from the program funds made available under 
     this heading, for administrative expenses for activities 
     funded under this heading.
                  mutual and self-help housing grants
       For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) 
     of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $30,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
                    rural housing assistance grants
       For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural 
     housing preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as 
     authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $40,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended.
               rural community facilities program account
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
     and guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and 
     described in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and 
     Rural Development Act, $3,000,000,000 for direct loans and 
     $148,287,000 for guaranteed loans.
       For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
     modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, $4,285,000, to remain 
     available until expended.
       For the cost of grants for rural community facilities 
     programs as authorized by section 306 and described in 
     section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act, $47,778,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That $6,000,000 of the amount 
     appropriated under this heading shall be available for a 
     Rural Community Development Initiative: Provided further, 
     That such funds shall be used solely to develop the capacity 
     and ability of private, nonprofit community-based housing and 
     community development organizations, low-income rural 
     communities, and Federally Recognized Native American Tribes 
     to undertake projects to improve housing, community 
     facilities, community and economic development projects in 
     rural areas: Provided further, That such funds shall be made 
     available to qualified private, nonprofit and public 
     intermediary organizations proposing to carry out a program 
     of financial and technical assistance: Provided further, That 
     such intermediary organizations shall provide matching funds 
     from other sources, including Federal funds for related 
     activities, in an amount not less than funds provided: 
     Provided further, That $5,778,000 of the amount appropriated 
     under this heading shall be to provide grants for facilities 
     in rural communities with extreme unemployment and severe 
     economic depression (Public Law 106-387), with up to 5 
     percent for administration and capacity building in the State 
     rural development offices: Provided further, That $4,000,000 
     of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for community facilities grants to tribal colleges, 
     as authorized by section 306(a)(19) of such Act: Provided 
     further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated 
     Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to the 
     funds made available under this heading.
                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service
                     rural business program account
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural 
     business development programs authorized by section 310B and 
     described in subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 
     310B of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
     $69,619,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That of the amount appropriated under this heading, not to 
     exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant to a 
     qualified national organization to provide technical 
     assistance for rural transportation in order to promote 
     economic development and $8,000,000 shall be for grants to 
     the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.), the 
     Northern Border Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 15101 et 
     seq.), and the Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C. 
     14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Advancement Program 
     purpose as described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated 
     Farm and Rural Development Act, of which not more than 5 
     percent may be used for administrative expenses: Provided 
     further, That $4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
     this heading shall be for business grants to benefit 
     Federally Recognized Native American Tribes, including 
     $250,000 for a grant to a qualified national organization to 
     provide technical assistance for rural transportation in 
     order to promote economic development: Provided further, That 
     sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act are not applicable to funds made available 
     under this heading.
              intermediary relending program fund account
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by 
     the Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 
     1936b), $18,889,000.
       For the cost of direct loans, $4,157,000, as authorized by 
     the Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 
     1936b), of which $557,000 shall be available through June 30, 
     2019, for Federally Recognized Native American Tribes; and of 
     which $1,072,000 shall be available through June 30, 2019, 
     for Mississippi Delta Region counties (as determined in 
     accordance with Public Law 100-460): Provided, That such 
     costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
     as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
     direct loan programs, $4,468,000 shall be transferred to and 
     merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, 
     Salaries and Expenses''.
            rural economic development loans program account
       For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized 
     under section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the 
     purpose of promoting rural economic development and job 
     creation projects, $45,000,000.
       The cost of grants authorized under section 313 of the 
     Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of promoting rural 
     economic development and job creation projects shall not 
     exceed $10,000,000.
                  rural cooperative development grants
       For rural cooperative development grants authorized under 
     section 310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932), $30,050,000, of which 
     $3,750,000 shall be for cooperative agreements for the 
     appropriate technology transfer for rural areas program: 
     Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
     for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, 
     or groups of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged 
     groups and a majority of the boards of directors or governing 
     boards of which are comprised of individuals who are members 
     of socially disadvantaged groups; and of which $17,500,000, 
     to remain available until expended, shall be for value-added 
     agricultural product market development grants, as authorized 
     by section 231 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 
     2000 (7 U.S.C. 1632a), of which $2,500,000 shall be for 
     Agriculture Innovation Centers authorized pursuant to section 
     6402 of Public Law 107-171.
                    rural energy for america program
       For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the 
     same terms and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of 
     the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
     8107), $338,000: Provided, That the cost of loan guarantees, 
     including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
     defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974.
                        Rural Utilities Service
             rural water and waste disposal program account
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants 
     for the rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid 
     waste management programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 
     306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and described in sections 
     306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the Consolidated 
     Farm and Rural Development Act, $558,183,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
     shall be available for the rural utilities program described 
     in section 306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to 
     exceed $993,000 shall be available for the rural utilities 
     program described in section 306E of such Act: Provided, That 
     not to exceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
     this heading shall be for grants authorized by section 
     306A(i)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
     in addition to funding authorized by section 306A(i)(1) of 
     such Act and such grants may not exceed $1,000,000 
     notwithstanding section 306A(f)(1) of such Act: Provided 
     further, That $68,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
     this heading shall be for loans and grants including water 
     and waste disposal systems grants authorized by section 
     306C(a)(2)(B) and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and 
     Rural Development Act, and Federally Recognized Native 
     American Tribes authorized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act: 
     Provided further, That funding provided for section 306D of 
     the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be 
     provided to a consortium formed pursuant to section 325 of 
     Public Law 105-83: Provided further, That not more than 2 
     percent of the funding provided for section 306D of the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by 
     the State of Alaska for training and technical assistance 
     programs and not more than 2 percent of the funding provided 
     for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act may be used by a consortium formed pursuant 
     to section 325 of Public Law 105-83 for training and 
     technical assistance programs: Provided further, That not to 
     exceed $40,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
     heading shall be for technical assistance grants for rural 
     water and waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of 
     such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of 
     extreme need, of which $8,000,000 shall be
     made available for a grant to a qualified nonprofit multi-
     State regional technical assistance organization, with 
     experience in working with small communities on water and 
     waste water problems, the principal purpose of such grant 
     shall be to assist rural communities with populations of 
     3,300 or less, in improving the planning, financing, 
     development, operation, and management of water and waste 
     water systems, and of which not less than $800,000 shall be 
     for a qualified national Native American organization to 
     provide technical assistance for rural water systems for 
     tribal communities: Provided further, That not to exceed 
     $19,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
     shall be for contracting with qualified national 
     organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
     technical assistance for rural water systems: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid 
     waste management grants: Provided further, That $10,000,000 
     of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be 
     transferred to, and merged with, the Rural Utilities Service, 
     High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide grants authorized 
     under section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
     U.S.C. 918a): Provided further, That any prior year balances 
     for high-energy cost grants authorized by section 19 of the 
     Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be 
     transferred to and merged with the Rural Utilities Service, 
     High Energy Cost Grants Account: Provided further, That 
     sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act are not applicable to the funds made 
     available under this heading.
   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account
                     (including transfer of funds)
       The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as 
     authorized by sections 305, 306, and 317 of the Rural 
     Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) 
     shall be made as follows: loans made pursuant to sections 
     305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of that Act, rural 
     electric, $5,500,000,000; guaranteed underwriting loans 
     pursuant to section 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural 
     telecommunications loans, cost of money rural 
     telecommunications loans, and for loans made pursuant to 
     section 306 of that Act, rural telecommunications loans, 
     $690,000,000: Provided, That up to $2,000,000,000 shall be 
     used for the construction, acquisition, design and 
     engineering or improvement of fossil-fueled electric 
     generating plants (whether new or existing) that utilize 
     carbon subsurface utilization and storage systems.
       For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 
     of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
     including the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 
     502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost of money 
     rural telecommunications loans, $1,725,000.
       In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
     out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $33,270,000, 
     which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
     appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and 
     Expenses''.
         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program
       For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication 
     loans, $29,851,000.
       For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services 
     in rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., 
     $33,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That $3,000,000 shall be made available for grants authorized 
     by 379G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act: 
     Provided further, That funding provided under this heading 
     for grants under 379G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act may only be provided to entities that meet 
     all of the eligibility criteria for a consortium as 
     established by this section.
       For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 
     601 of the Rural Electrification Act, $5,830,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the cost of direct 
     loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974.
       In addition, $30,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, for a grant program to finance broadband 
     transmission in rural areas eligible for Distance Learning 
     and Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
     950aaa.
               rural health and safety education programs
       Any funds provided by this Act for rural health and safety 
     education programs authorized under section 502(i) of the 
     Rural Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2662(i)) may be used 
     under those programs to address the opioid abuse epidemic and 
     to combat opioid abuse in rural communities.
                                TITLE IV
                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS
    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $800,000: 
     Provided, That funds made available by this Act to an agency 
     in the Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services mission area for 
     salaries and expenses are available to fund up to one 
     administrative support staff for the Office.
                       Food and Nutrition Service
                        child nutrition programs
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell 
     National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except 
     section 21, and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
     1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; $23,184,012,000 to 
     remain available through September 30, 2020, of which such 
     sums as are made available under section 14222(b)(1) of the 
     Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
     246), as amended by this Act, shall be merged with and 
     available for the same time period and purposes as provided 
     herein: Provided, That of the total amount available, 
     $17,004,000 shall be available to carry out section 19 of the 
     Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.): 
     Provided further, That of the total amount available, 
     $30,000,000 shall be available to provide competitive grants 
     to State agencies for subgrants to local educational agencies 
     and schools to purchase the equipment, with a value of 
     greater than $1,000, needed to serve healthier meals, improve 
     food safety, and to help support the establishment, 
     maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast program: 
     Provided further, That of the total amount available, 
     $28,000,000 shall remain available until expended to carry 
     out section 749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act of 
     2010 (Public Law 111-80): Provided further, That section 
     26(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by striking 
     ``2010 through 2018'' and inserting ``2010 through 2019'': 
     Provided further, That section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. 
     Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3)) is 
     amended in the first sentence by striking ``for fiscal year 
     2018'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2019'': Provided 
     further, That section 9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell 
     National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is amended 
     in the first sentence by striking ``for fiscal year 2018'' 
     and inserting ``for fiscal year 2019''.
special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)
       For necessary expenses to carry out the special 
     supplemental nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of 
     the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), 
     $6,150,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 
     2020, of which $25,000,000 shall be placed in reserve, to 
     remain available until expended, to be allocated as the 
     Secretary deemed necessary, notwithstanding section 17(i) of 
     such Act, to support participation should cost or 
     participation exceed budget estimates: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding section 17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act 
     of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not less than $67,500,000 
     shall be used for breastfeeding peer counselors and other 
     related activities, and $19,000,000 shall be used for 
     infrastructure, of which $5,000,000 shall be for competitive 
     grants to promote breastfeeding and improved nutritional 
     health through technologies and services, including 
     telemedicine: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     provided in this account shall be available for the purchase 
     of infant formula except in accordance with the cost 
     containment and competitive bidding requirements specified in 
     section 17 of such Act: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds provided shall be available for activities that are not 
     fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or 
     agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such Act: 
     Provided further, That upon termination of a federally 
     mandated vendor moratorium and subject to terms and 
     conditions established by the Secretary, the Secretary may 
     waive the requirement at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the request of 
     a State agency.
               supplemental nutrition assistance program
       For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition 
     Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $73,219,274,000, of 
     which $3,000,000,000, to remain available through December 
     31, 2020, shall be placed in reserve for use only in such 
     amounts and at such times as may become necessary to carry 
     out program operations: Provided, That funds provided herein 
     shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food 
     and Nutrition Act of 2008: Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used 
     to provide nutrition education services to State agencies and 
     Federally Recognized Tribes participating in the Food 
     Distribution Program on Indian Reservations: Provided 
     further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
     registration or workfare requirements as may be required by 
     law: Provided further, That funds made available for 
     Employment and Training under this heading shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2020: Provided further, That 
     funds made available under this heading for section 28(d)(1), 
     section 4(b), and section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
     of 2008 shall remain available through September 30, 2020: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
     this heading may be obligated or expended in contravention of 
     section 213A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
     1183A): Provided further, That funds made available under 
     this heading may be used to enter into contracts and employ 
     staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct 
     activities related to program integrity provided that such 
     activities are authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008.
                      commodity assistance program
       For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and 
     the Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by 
     section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act 
     of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note);
     the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
     for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 
     103(f)(2) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act 
     of 2003 (Public Law 108-188); and the Farmers' Market 
     Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 17(m) of the 
     Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $322,139,000, to remain 
     available through September 30, 2020: Provided, That none of 
     these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity 
     Credit Corporation for commodities donated to the program: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, effective with funds made available in fiscal year 2019 
     to support the Seniors Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as 
     authorized by section 4402 of the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain available 
     through September 30, 2020: Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food and 
     Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may 
     use up to 15 percent for costs associated with the 
     distribution of commodities.
                   nutrition programs administration
       For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and 
     Nutrition Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition 
     assistance program, $164,688,000: Provided, That of the funds 
     provided herein, $2,000,000 shall be used for the purposes of 
     section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, as amended by section 
     4401 of Public Law 110-246.
                                TITLE V
                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS
   Office of the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Affairs
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary 
     for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, $875,000: 
     Provided, That funds made available by this Act to any agency 
     in the Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs mission area 
     for salaries and expenses are available to fund up to one 
     administrative support staff for the Office.
                      office of codex alimentarius
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Codex Alimentarius, 
     $3,976,000, including not to exceed $40,000 for official 
     reception and representation expenses.
                      Foreign Agricultural Service
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
     including not to exceed $250,000 for representation 
     allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act 
     approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $212,230,000, of 
     which no more than 6 percent shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020, for overseas operations to include the 
     payment of locally employed staff: Provided, That the Service 
     may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this 
     appropriation for expenditures made on behalf of Federal 
     agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
     under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food 
     production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the 
     foreign assistance programs of the United States Agency for 
     International Development: Provided further, That funds made 
     available for middle-income country training programs, funds 
     made available for the Borlaug International Agricultural 
     Science and Technology Fellowship program, and up to 
     $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural Service appropriation 
     solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations in 
     international currency exchange rates, subject to 
     documentation by the Foreign Agricultural Service, shall 
     remain available until expended.
  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program 
     of title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the 
     Food for Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be transferred 
     to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service 
     Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
                     food for peace title ii grants
       For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
     recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including 
     interest thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 
     83-480), for commodities supplied in connection with 
     dispositions abroad under title II of said Act, 
     $1,716,000,000, to remain available until expended.
  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
     2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1), $210,255,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That the Commodity Credit 
     Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
     facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing 
     such section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided 
     herein: Provided further, That of the amount made available 
     under this heading, $15,000,000, shall remain available until 
     expended for necessary expenses to carry out the provisions 
     of section 3207 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 
     1726c).
 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity 
     Credit Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and 
     GSM 103, $8,845,000; to cover common overhead expenses as 
     permitted by section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
     Charter Act and in conformity with the Federal Credit Reform 
     Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall be transferred to and 
     merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural 
     Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $2,463,000 
     shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
     ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
                                TITLE VI
            RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
                Department of Health and Human Services
                      food and drug administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
     including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for 
     payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
     Law 92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug 
     Administration which are included in this Act; for rental of 
     special purpose space in the District of Columbia or 
     elsewhere; in addition to amounts appropriated to the FDA 
     Innovation Account, for carrying out the activities described 
     in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public 
     Law 114-255); for miscellaneous and emergency expenses of 
     enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
     Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
     certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding 
     section 521 of Public Law 107-188; $5,419,299,000: Provided, 
     That of the amount provided under this heading, $960,568,000 
     shall be derived from prescription drug user fees authorized 
     by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended; $196,668,000 shall be 
     derived from medical device user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
     379j, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
     available until expended; $501,396,000 shall be derived from 
     human generic drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, 
     and shall be credited to this account and remain available 
     until expended; $40,922,000 shall be derived from biosimilar 
     biological product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-52, 
     and shall be credited to this account and remain available 
     until expended; $30,331,000 shall be derived from animal drug 
     user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and shall be 
     credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
     $18,336,000 shall be derived from generic new animal drug 
     user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and shall be 
     credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
     $712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco product user fees 
     authorized by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be credited to this 
     account and remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That in addition to and notwithstanding any other 
     provision under this heading, amounts collected for 
     prescription drug user fees, medical device user fees, human 
     generic drug user fees, biosimilar biological product user 
     fees, animal drug user fees, and generic new animal drug user 
     fees that exceed the respective fiscal year 2019 limitations 
     are appropriated and shall be credited to this account and 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That fees 
     derived from prescription drug, medical device, human generic 
     drug, biosimilar biological product, animal drug, and generic 
     new animal drug assessments for fiscal year 2019, including 
     any such fees collected prior to fiscal year 2019 but 
     credited for fiscal year 2019, shall be subject to the fiscal 
     year 2019 limitations: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     may accept payment during fiscal year 2019 of user fees 
     specified under this heading and authorized for fiscal year 
     2020, prior to the due date for such fees, and that amounts 
     of such fees assessed for fiscal year 2020 for which the 
     Secretary accepts payment in fiscal year 2019 shall not be 
     included in amounts under this heading: Provided further, 
     That none of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, 
     or operate any program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
     9701: Provided further, That of the total amount 
     appropriated: (1) $1,052,315,000 shall be for the Center for 
     Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field 
     activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs, of which no 
     less than $15,000,000 shall be used for inspections of 
     foreign seafood manufacturers and field examinations of 
     imported seafood; (2) $1,720,807,000 shall be for the Center 
     for Drug Evaluation and Research and related field activities 
     in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $369,857,000 shall 
     be for the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and 
     for related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
     Affairs; (4) $216,914,000 shall be for the Center for 
     Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the 
     Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) $495,988,000 shall be for 
     the Center for Devices and Radiological Health and for 
     related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; 
     (6) $65,531,000 shall be for the National Center for 
     Toxicological Research; (7) $662,043,000 shall be for the 
     Center for Tobacco Products and for related field activities 
     in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (8) not to exceed 
     $174,751,000 shall be for Rent and Related activities, of 
     which $50,987,000 is for White Oak Consolidation, other than 
     the amounts paid to the General Services Administration for 
     rent; (9) not to exceed $240,887,000 shall be for payments to 
     the General Services Administration for rent; and (10) 
     $420,206,000 shall be for other activities,
     including the Office of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 
     the Office of Foods and Veterinary Medicine, the Office of 
     Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of Global and 
     Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations, the Office of 
     the Chief Scientist, and central services for these offices: 
     Provided further, That not to exceed $25,000 of this amount 
     shall be for official reception and representation expenses, 
     not otherwise provided for, as determined by the 
     Commissioner: Provided further, That any transfer of funds 
     pursuant to section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts 
     made available under this heading for other activities: 
     Provided further, That of the amounts that are made available 
     under this heading for ``other activities'', and that are not 
     derived from user fees, $1,500,000 shall be transferred to 
     and merged with the appropriation for ``Department of Health 
     and Human Services--Office of Inspector General'' for 
     oversight of the programs and operations of the Food and Drug 
     Administration and shall be in addition to funds otherwise 
     made available for oversight of the Food and Drug 
     Administration: Provided further, That funds may be 
     transferred from one specified activity to another with the 
     prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress.
       In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 
     263b, export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
     381, priority review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n 
     and 360ff, food and feed recall fees, food reinspection fees, 
     and voluntary qualified importer program fees authorized by 
     21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees authorized by 21 
     U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale distributor 
     licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
     353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider licensing and 
     inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), 
     third-party auditor fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), 
     and medical countermeasure priority review voucher user fees 
     authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb-4a, shall be credited to this 
     account, to remain available until expended.
                        buildings and facilities
       For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
     alteration, demolition, and purchase of fixed equipment or 
     facilities of or used by the Food and Drug Administration, 
     where not otherwise provided, $11,788,000, to remain 
     available until expended.
                   fda innovation account, cures act
       For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes described 
     under section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Century Cures Act, in 
     addition to amounts available for such purposes under the 
     heading ``Salaries and Expenses'', $70,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That amounts appropriated 
     in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant to section 
     1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures Act, are to be derived 
     from amounts transferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such 
     Act, and may be transferred by the Commissioner of Food and 
     Drugs to the appropriation for ``Department of Health and 
     Human Services--Food and Drug Administration--Salaries and 
     Expenses'' solely for the purposes provided in such Act: 
     Provided further, That upon a determination by the 
     Commissioner that funds transferred pursuant to the previous 
     proviso are not necessary for the purposes provided, such 
     amounts may be transferred back to the account: Provided 
     further, That such transfer authority is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority provided by law.
                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY
                       Farm Credit Administration
                 limitation on administrative expenses
       Not to exceed $74,600,000 (from assessments collected from 
     farm credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural 
     Mortgage Corporation) shall be obligated during the current 
     fiscal year for administrative expenses as authorized under 
     12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, That this limitation shall not 
     apply to expenses associated with receiverships: Provided 
     further, That the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 
     10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
                               TITLE VII
                           GENERAL PROVISIONS
             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)
       Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
     appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
     Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall 
     be available for the purchase, in addition to those 
     specifically provided for, of not to exceed 71 passenger 
     motor vehicles of which 68 shall be for replacement only, and 
     for the hire of such vehicles: Provided, That notwithstanding 
     this section, the only purchase of new passenger vehicles 
     shall be for those determined by the Secretary to be 
     necessary for transportation safety, to reduce operational 
     costs, and for the protection of life, property, and public 
     safety.
       Sec. 702. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     the Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated 
     balances of discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or 
     any other available unobligated discretionary balances that 
     are remaining available of the Department of Agriculture to 
     the Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of plant and 
     capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
     administrative, and information technology services of 
     primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of 
     Agriculture, such transferred funds to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That none of the funds made available by 
     this Act or any other Act shall be transferred to the Working 
     Capital Fund without the prior approval of the agency 
     administrator: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this 
     section shall be available for obligation without written 
     notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress: Provided further, 
     That none of the funds appropriated by this Act or made 
     available to the Department's Working Capital Fund shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes 
     to the Department's National Finance Center without written 
     notification to and prior approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress as required by 
     section 717 of this Act: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act or made available to the 
     Department's Working Capital Fund shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, 
     implement, or make any changes to remove or relocate any 
     systems, missions, or functions of the offices of the Chief 
     Financial Officer or any personnel from the National Finance 
     Center prior to written notification to and prior approval of 
     the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     and in accordance with the requirements of section 717 of 
     this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of Agriculture 
     and the offices of the Chief Financial Officer shall actively 
     market to existing and new Departments and other government 
     agencies National Finance Center shared services including, 
     but not limited to, payroll, financial management, and human 
     capital shared services and allow the National Finance Center 
     to perform technology upgrades: Provided further, That of 
     annual income amounts in the Working Capital Fund of the 
     Department of Agriculture attributable to the amounts in 
     excess of the true costs of the shared services provided by 
     the National Finance Center and budgeted for the National 
     Finance Center, the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4 
     percent for the replacement or acquisition of capital 
     equipment, including equipment for the improvement, delivery, 
     and implementation of financial, administrative, and 
     information technology services, and other systems of the 
     National Finance Center or to pay any unforeseen, 
     extraordinary cost of the National Finance Center: Provided 
     further, That none of the amounts reserved shall be available 
     for obligation unless the Secretary submits written 
     notification of the obligation to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress: Provided further, 
     That the limitations on the obligation of funds pending 
     notification to Congressional Committees shall not apply to 
     any obligation that, as determined by the Secretary, is 
     necessary to respond to a declared state of emergency that 
     significantly impacts the operations of the National Finance 
     Center; or to evacuate employees of the National Finance 
     Center to a safe haven to continue operations of the National 
     Finance Center.
       Sec. 703. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 704. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
     pay negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements 
     or similar arrangements between the United States Department 
     of Agriculture and nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 
     percent of the total direct cost of the agreement when the 
     purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to carry out 
     programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
     does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on 
     grants and contracts with such institutions when such 
     indirect costs are computed on a similar basis for all 
     agencies for which appropriations are provided in this Act.
       Sec. 705. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture 
     for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in 
     the current fiscal year shall remain available until expended 
     to disburse obligations made in the current fiscal year for 
     the following accounts: the Rural Development Loan Fund 
     program account, the Rural Electrification and 
     Telecommunication Loans program account, and the Rural 
     Housing Insurance Fund program account.
       Sec. 706. None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire 
     new information technology systems or significant upgrades, 
     as determined by the Office of the Chief Information Officer, 
     without the approval of the Chief Information Officer and the 
     concurrence of the Executive Information Technology 
     Investment Review Board: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by this Act may be transferred to 
     the Office of the Chief Information Officer without written 
     notification to and the prior approval of the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress: Provided further, 
     That, notwithstanding section 11319 of title 40, United 
     States Code, none of the funds available to the Department of 
     Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated for 
     projects, contracts, or other agreements over $25,000 prior 
     to receipt of written approval by
     the Chief Information Officer: Provided further, That the 
     Chief Information Officer may authorize an agency to obligate 
     funds without written approval from the Chief Information 
     Officer for projects, contracts, or other agreements up to 
     $250,000 based upon the performance of an agency measured 
     against the performance plan requirements described in the 
     explanatory statement accompanying Public Law 113-235.
       Sec. 707. Funds made available under section 524(b) of the 
     Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current 
     fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
     obligations made in the current fiscal year.
       Sec. 708. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     former RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, 
     direct or guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act 
     of 1936, or any not-for-profit utility that is eligible to 
     receive an insured or direct loan under such Act, shall be 
     eligible for assistance under section 313(b)(2)(B) of such 
     Act in the same manner as a borrower under such Act.
       Sec. 709. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, 
     not more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from 
     appropriations made available for salaries and expenses in 
     this Act for the Farm Service Agency shall remain available 
     through September 30, 2020, for information technology 
     expenses: Provided, That except as otherwise specifically 
     provided by law, unobligated balances from appropriations 
     made available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the 
     Rural Development mission area shall remain available through 
     September 30, 2020, for information technology expenses.
       Sec. 710. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by 
     the employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention 
     of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code 
     of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 711. In the case of each program established or 
     amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), 
     other than by title I or subtitle A of title III of such Act, 
     or programs for which indefinite amounts were provided in 
     that Act, that is authorized or required to be carried out 
     using funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation--
       (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
     administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
     associated with the implementation of the program, without 
     regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments 
     and fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity 
     Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
       (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
     considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
     applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
     fund transfers contained in such section.
       Sec. 712. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more 
     than $2,900,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of 
     activities related to all advisory committees, panels, 
     commissions, and task forces of the Department of 
     Agriculture, except for panels used to comply with negotiated 
     rule makings and panels used to evaluate competitively 
     awarded grants.
       Sec. 713. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     to pay indirect costs charged against any agricultural 
     research, education, or extension grant awards issued by the 
     National Institute of Food and Agriculture that exceed 30 
     percent of total Federal funds provided under each award: 
     Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the National 
     Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
     1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants 
     awarded competitively by the National Institute of Food and 
     Agriculture shall be available to pay full allowable indirect 
     costs for each grant awarded under section 9 of the Small 
     Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
       Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 715. Notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 14222 
     of Public Law 110-246 (7 U.S.C. 612c-6; in this section 
     referred to as ``section 14222''), none of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other 
     Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
     personnel to carry out a program under section 32 of the Act 
     of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred 
     to as ``section 32'') in excess of $1,299,600,000 (exclusive 
     of carryover appropriations from prior fiscal years), as 
     follows: Child Nutrition Programs Entitlement Commodities--
     $485,000,000; State Option Contracts-- $5,000,000; Removal of 
     Defective Commodities--$2,500,000; Administration of Section 
     32 Commodity Purchases--$35,853,000: Provided, That of the 
     total funds made available in the matter preceding this 
     proviso that remain unobligated on October 1, 2019, such 
     unobligated balances shall carryover into fiscal year 2020 
     and shall remain available until expended for any of the 
     purposes of section 32, except that any such carryover funds 
     used in accordance with clause (3) of section 32 may not 
     exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obligated until the 
     Secretary of Agriculture provides written notification of the 
     expenditures to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
     Houses of Congress at least two weeks in advance: Provided 
     further, That, with the exception of any available carryover 
     funds authorized in any prior appropriations Act to be used 
     for the purposes of clause (3) of section 32, none of the 
     funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any 
     other Act shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of 
     any employee of the Department of Agriculture to carry out 
     clause (3) of section 32.
       Sec. 716. None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
     other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
     personnel who prepare or submit appropriations language as 
     part of the President's budget submission to the Congress for 
     programs under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations 
     Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
     Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes 
     revenues or reflects a reduction from the previous year due 
     to user fees proposals that have not been enacted into law 
     prior to the submission of the budget unless such budget 
     submission identifies which additional spending reductions 
     should occur in the event the user fees proposals are not 
     enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
     conference for the fiscal year 2020 appropriations Act.
       Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or 
     provided by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
     funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
     expenditure in the current fiscal year, or provided from any 
     accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees 
     available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
     available for obligation or expenditure through a 
     reprogramming, transfer of funds, or reimbursements as 
     authorized by the Economy Act, or in the case of the 
     Department of Agriculture, through use of the authority 
     provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
     Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public 
     Law 89-106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
       (1) creates new programs;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
     project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
     restricted;
       (4) relocates an office or employees;
       (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
       (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees;
     unless the Secretary of Agriculture, or the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in 
     writing and receives approval from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in 
     advance of the reprogramming of such funds or the use of such 
     authority.
       (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
     previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this 
     Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
     the current fiscal year, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees available to the 
     agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or 
     projects through a reprogramming or use of the authorities 
     referred to in subsection (a) involving funds in excess of 
     $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that--
       (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
       (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
     project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent 
     as approved by Congress; or
       (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
     personnel which would result in a change in existing 
     programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
     unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in 
     writing and receives approval from the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in 
     advance of the reprogramming or transfer of such funds or the 
     use of such authority.
       (c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health 
     and Human Services shall notify in writing and receive 
     approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress before implementing any program or activity not 
     carried out during the previous fiscal year unless the 
     program or activity is funded by this Act or specifically 
     funded by any other Act.
       (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
     previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this 
     Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in 
     the current fiscal year, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees available to the 
     agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for--
       (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
     including information technology systems, that involves 
     increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
     the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
     of the total cost, whichever is less;
       (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
     positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
     center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
     personnel; or
       (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
     described in the budget request; unless the agencies funded 
     by this Act notify, in writing, the Committees on 
     Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30
     days in advance of using the funds for these purposes.
       (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for 
     any activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services receives from the 
     Committee on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
     written or electronic mail confirmation of receipt of the 
     notification as required in this section.
       Sec. 718. Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the 
     Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
     1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may assess a one-time fee for any 
     guaranteed business and industry loan in an amount that does 
     not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal portion of 
     the loan.
       Sec. 719. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
     Administration, or the Farm Credit Administration shall be 
     used to transmit or otherwise make available reports, 
     questions, or responses to questions that are a result of 
     information requested for the appropriations hearing process 
     to any non-Department of Agriculture, non-Department of 
     Health and Human Services, or non-Farm Credit Administration 
     employee.
       Sec. 720. Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none 
     of the funds provided in this Act, may be used by an 
     executive branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story 
     intended for broadcast or distribution in the United States 
     unless the story includes a clear notification within the 
     text or audio of the prepackaged news story that the 
     prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
     executive branch agency.
       Sec. 721. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may 
     be detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by 
     this Act or any other Act to any other agency or office of 
     the Department for more than 60 days in a fiscal year unless 
     the individual's employing agency or office is fully 
     reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the salary 
     and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
       Sec. 722. There is hereby appropriated $2,000,000 for a 
     pilot program to provide competitive grants to State 
     departments of agriculture, State cooperative extension 
     services, and nonprofit organizations to carry out programs 
     to address farmer stress and suicide.
       Sec. 723. Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
     Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, and the 
     Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration shall submit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
     detailed spending plan by program, project, and activity for 
     all the funds made available under this Act including 
     appropriated user fees, as defined in Senate Report 115-259.
       Sec. 724. Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
     available for the supplemental nutrition program as 
     authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
     (42 U.S.C. 1786), $501,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
       Sec. 725. The Secretary shall continue an intermediary loan 
     packaging program based on the pilot program in effect for 
     fiscal year 2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 
     single family direct loans. The Secretary shall continue 
     agreements with current intermediary organizations and with 
     additional qualified intermediary organizations. The 
     Secretary shall work with these organizations to increase 
     effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan 
     program in rural communities and shall set aside and make 
     available from the national reserve section 502 loans an 
     amount necessary to support the work of such intermediaries 
     and provide a priority for review of such loans.
       Sec. 726. For loans and loan guarantees that do not require 
     budget authority and the program level has been established 
     in this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may increase the 
     program level for such loans and loan guarantees by not more 
     than 25 percent: Provided, That prior to the Secretary 
     implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, in 
     writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
     Congress at least 15 days in advance.
       Sec. 727. None of the credit card refunds or rebates 
     transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 
     729 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
     Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002 
     (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be available for 
     obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
     approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
     of Congress: Provided, That the refunds or rebates so 
     transferred shall be available for obligation only for the 
     acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the 
     delivery of financial, administrative, and information 
     technology services of primary benefit to the agencies of the 
     Department of Agriculture.
       Sec. 728. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to implement, administer, or enforce the ``variety'' 
     requirements of the final rule entitled ``Enhancing Retailer 
     Standards in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program 
     (SNAP)'' published by the Department of Agriculture in the 
     Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 90675) 
     until the Secretary of Agriculture amends the definition of 
     the term ``variety'' as de fined in section 
     278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, 
     and ``variety'' as applied in the definition of the term 
     ``staple food'' as defined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code 
     of Federal Regulations, to increase the number of items that 
     qualify as acceptable varieties in each staple food category 
     so that the total number of such items in each staple food 
     category exceeds the number of such items in each staple food 
     category included in the final rule as published on December 
     15, 2016: Provided, That until the Secretary promulgates such 
     regulatory amendments, the Secretary shall apply the 
     requirements regarding acceptable varieties and breadth of 
     stock to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program retailers 
     that were in effect on the day before the date of the 
     enactment of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-
     79).
       Sec. 729. None of the funds made available by this Act or 
     any other Act may be used--
       (1) in contravention of section 7606 of the Agricultural 
     Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
       (2) to prohibit the transportation, processing, sale, or 
     use of industrial hemp, or seeds of such plant, that is grown 
     or cultivated in accordance with subsection section 7606 of 
     the Agricultural Act of 2014, within or outside the State in 
     which the industrial hemp is grown or cultivated.
       Sec. 730. Funds provided by this or any prior 
     Appropriations Act for the Agriculture and Food Research 
     Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) shall be made available 
     without regard to section 7128 of the Agricultural Act of 
     2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the matching requirements in 
     laws in effect on the date before the date of enactment of 
     such section: Provided, That the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 
     450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
       Sec. 731. In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of 
     the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of 
     Agriculture shall have the same authority with respect to 
     loans guaranteed under such section and eligible lenders for 
     such loans as the Secretary has under subsections (h) and (j) 
     of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490p-2) with respect 
     to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and eligible 
     lenders for such loans.
       Sec. 732. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or 
     take any other action with respect to, allowing or requiring 
     information intended for a prescribing health care 
     professional, in the case of a drug or biological product 
     subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
     professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless 
     and until a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such 
     distribution.
       Sec. 733. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to notify a sponsor or otherwise acknowledge receipt 
     of a submission for an exemption for investigational use of a 
     drug or biological product under section 505(i) of the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or 
     section 351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
     262(a)(3)) in research in which a human embryo is 
     intentionally created or modified to include a heritable 
     genetic modification. Any such submission shall be deemed to 
     have not been received by the Secretary, and the exemption 
     may not go into effect.
       Sec. 734. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to carry out the final rule promulgated 
     by the Food and Drug Administration and put into effect 
     November 16, 2015, in regards to the hazard analysis and 
     risk-based preventive control requirements of the current 
     good manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and risk-based 
     preventive controls for food for animals rule with respect to 
     the regulation of the production, distribution, sale, or 
     receipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the alcoholic 
     beverage production process.
       Sec. 735. There is hereby appropriated $1,996,000 to carry 
     out section 1621 of Public Law 110-246.
       Sec. 736. No partially hydrogenated oils as defined in the 
     order published by the Food and Drug Administration in the 
     Federal Register on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et 
     seq.) shall be deemed unsafe within the meaning of section 
     409(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
     348(a)) and no food that is introduced or delivered for 
     introduction into interstate commerce that bears or contains 
     a partially hydrogenated oil shall be deemed adulterated 
     under sections 402(a)(1) or 402(a)(2)(C)(i) of this Act by 
     virtue of bearing or containing a partially hydrogenated oil 
     until the compliance date as specified in such order (June 
     18, 2018).
       Sec. 737. There is hereby appropriated $10,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, to carry out section 6407 of 
     the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
     8107a): Provided, That the Secretary may allow eligible 
     entities to offer loans to customers in any part of their 
     service territory and to offer loans to replace a 
     manufactured housing unit with another manufactured housing 
     unit, if replacement would be more cost effective in saving 
     energy.
       Sec. 738. For fiscal years 2019 through 2025, the 
     Administrators of the Agricultural Research Service and the 
     Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may make not to 
     exceed 50 appointments in any fiscal year for employees of 
     such agencies at the National Bio- and Agro-defense Facility 
     (NBAF) in Manhattan, Kansas: Provided, That such appointments 
     may be made in the manner provided by 7 U.S.C. 
     7657(b)(4)(A)(i-v): Provided further, That such appointments 
     may be made at a rate of basic pay that exceeds the rate 
     payable for such positions under the
     General Schedule or the Executive Schedule, or other 
     applicable schedule, as appropriate.
       Sec. 739. There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 for the 
     Secretary to carry out a pilot program that provides forestry 
     inventory analysis, forest management and economic outcomes 
     modelling for certain currently enrolled Conservation Reserve 
     Program participants. The Secretary shall allow the Commodity 
     Credit Corporation to enter into agreements with and provide 
     grants to qualified non-profit organizations dedicated to 
     conservation, forestry and wildlife habitats, that also have 
     experience in conducting accurate forest inventory analysis 
     through the use of advanced, cost-effective technology. The 
     Secretary shall focus the analysis on lands enrolled for at 
     least eight years and located in areas with a substantial 
     concentration of acres enrolled under conservation practices 
     devoted to multiple bottomland hardwood tree species 
     including CP03, CP03A, CP11, CP22, CP31 and CP40.
       Sec. 740. During fiscal year 2019, the Food and Drug 
     Administration shall not allow the introduction or delivery 
     for introduction into interstate commerce of any food that 
     contains genetically engineered salmon until the FDA 
     publishes final labeling guidelines for informing consumers 
     of such content.
       Sec. 741. In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
     by this Act and notwithstanding the last sentence of 16 
     U.S.C. 1310, there is appropriated $4,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, to implement non-renewable 
     agreements on eligible lands, including flooded agricultural 
     lands, as determined by the Secretary, under the Water Bank 
     Act (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311).
       Sec. 742. (a)(1) No Federal funds made available for this 
     fiscal year for the rural water, waste water, waste disposal, 
     and solid waste management programs authorized by sections 
     306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B of the Consolidated 
     Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall 
     be used for a project for the construction, alteration, 
     maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater system 
     unless all of the iron and steel products used in the project 
     are produced in the United States.
       (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel products'' 
     means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: 
     lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other 
     municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and 
     restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast 
     concrete, and construction materials.
       (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category 
     of cases in which the Secretary of Agriculture (in this 
     section referred to as the ``Secretary'') or the designee of 
     the Secretary finds that--
       (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
     public interest;
       (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
     States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities or 
     of a satisfactory quality; or
       (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
     United States will increase the cost of the overall project 
     by more than 25 percent.
       (c) If the Secretary or the designee receives a request for 
     a waiver under this section, the Secretary or the designee 
     shall make available to the public on an informal basis a 
     copy of the request and information available to the 
     Secretary or the designee concerning the request, and shall 
     allow for informal public input on the request for at least 
     15 days prior to making a finding based on the request. The 
     Secretary or the designee shall make the request and 
     accompanying information available by electronic means, 
     including on the official public Internet Web site of the 
     Department.
       (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with United States obligations under international 
     agreements.
       (e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25 percent of the 
     funds appropriated in this Act for ``Rural Utilities 
     Service--Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account'' for 
     carrying out the provisions described in subsection (a)(1) 
     for management and oversight of the requirements of this 
     section.
       (f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a 
     project for which the engineering plans and specifications 
     include use of iron and steel products otherwise prohibited 
     by such subsection if the plans and specifications have 
     received required approvals from State agencies prior to the 
     date of enactment of this Act.
       (g) For purposes of this section, the terms ``United 
     States'' and ``State'' shall include each of the several 
     States, the District of Columbia, and each federally 
     recognized Indian tribe.
       Sec. 743. The Secretary shall set aside for Rural Economic 
     Area Partnership (REAP) Zones, until August 15, 2019, an 
     amount of funds made available in title III under the 
     headings of Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account, 
     Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants, Rural Housing Assistance 
     Grants, Rural Community Facilities Program Account, Rural 
     Business Program Account, Rural Development Loan Fund Program 
     Account, and Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account, 
     equal to the amount obligated in REAP Zones with respect to 
     funds provided under such headings in the most recent fiscal 
     year any such funds were obligated under such headings for 
     REAP Zones.
       Sec. 744. For the purposes of determining eligibility or 
     level of program assistance for Rural Development programs 
     the Secretary shall not include incarcerated prison 
     populations.
       Sec. 745. There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, for a pilot program for the 
     Secretary to provide grants to qualified non-profit 
     organizations and public housing authorities to provide 
     technical assistance, including financial and legal services, 
     to RHS multi-family housing borrowers to facilitate the 
     acquisition of RHS multi-family housing properties in areas 
     where the Secretary determines a risk of loss of affordable 
     housing, by non-profit housing organizations and public 
     housing authorities as authorized by law that commit to keep 
     such properties in the RHS multi-family housing program for a 
     period of time as determined by the Secretary.
       Sec. 746. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
     used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence 
     congressional action on any legislation or appropriation 
     matters pending before Congress, other than to communicate to 
     Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
       Sec. 747. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in 
     this section as the ``Secretary'') shall carry out a pilot 
     program during fiscal year 2019 with respect to the 2018 crop 
     year for county-level agriculture risk coverage payments 
     under section 1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 
     U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)), that provides all or some of the State 
     Farm Service Agency offices in each State the opportunity to 
     provide agricultural producers in the State a supplemental 
     payment described in subsection (c) based on the alternate 
     calculation method described in subsection (b) for 1 or more 
     counties in a State if the office for that State determines 
     that the alternate calculation method is necessary to ensure 
     that, to the maximum extent practicable, there are not 
     significant yield calculation disparities between comparable 
     counties in the State.
       (b) The alternate calculation method referred to in 
     subsection (a) is a method of calculating the actual yield 
     for the 2018 crop year for county-level agriculture risk 
     coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of the 
     Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)), under which--
       (1) county data of the National Agricultural Statistics 
     Service (referred to in this section as ``NASS data'') is 
     used for the calculations;
       (2) if there is insufficient NASS data for a county (as 
     determined under standards of the Secretary in effect as of 
     the date of enactment of this Act) or the available NASS data 
     produces a substantially disparate result, the calculation of 
     the county yield is determined using comparable contiguous 
     county NASS data as determined by the Farm Service Agency 
     office in the applicable State; and
       (3) if there is insufficient NASS data for a comparable 
     contiguous county (as determined under standards of the 
     Secretary in effect as of the date of enactment of this Act), 
     the calculation of the county yield is determined using 
     reliable yield data from other sources, such as Risk 
     Management Agency data, National Agricultural Statistics 
     Service district data, National Agricultural Statistics 
     Service State yield data, or other data as determined by the 
     Farm Service Agency office in the applicable State.
       (c)(1) A supplemental payment made under the pilot program 
     established under this section may be made to an agricultural 
     producer who is subject to the alternate calculation method 
     described in subsection (b) if that agricultural producer 
     would otherwise receive a county-level agriculture risk 
     coverage payment for the 2018 crop year in an amount that is 
     less than the payment that the agricultural producer would 
     receive under the alternate calculation method.
       (2) The amount of a supplemental payment to an agricultural 
     producer under this section may not exceed the difference 
     between--
       (A) the payment that the agricultural producer would have 
     received without the alternate calculation method described 
     in subsection (b); and
       (B) the payment that the agricultural producer would 
     receive using the alternate calculation method.
       (d)(1) There is appropriated to the Secretary, out of funds 
     of the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, to carry out the 
     pilot program described in this section.
       (2) Of the funds appropriated, the Secretary shall use not 
     more than $5,000,000 to carry out the pilot program described 
     in this section.
       (e)(1) To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary 
     shall select States to participate in the pilot program under 
     this section so the cost of the pilot program equals the 
     amount provided under subsection (d).
       (2) To the extent that the cost of the pilot program 
     exceeds the amount made available, the Secretary shall reduce 
     all payments under the pilot program on a pro rata basis.
       (f) Nothing in this section affects the calculation of 
     actual yield for purposes of county-level agriculture risk 
     coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of the 
     Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)) other than 
     payments made in accordance with the pilot program under this 
     section.
       (g) A calculation of actual yield made using the alternate 
     calculation method described in subsection (b) shall not be 
     used as a basis for any agriculture risk coverage payment 
     determinations under section 1117 of the Agricultural Act of 
     2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017) other than for purposes of the pilot 
     program under this section.
       Sec. 748. The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary's 
     designees are hereby granted the same access to information 
     and subject to the same requirements applicable to the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development as provided in 
     section 453 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653) and 
     section 6103(1)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 (26 U.S.C. 1603(1)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify the income for 
     individuals participating in sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 
     of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and 
     1490r), notwithstanding section 453(l)(1) of the Social 
     Security Act.
       Sec. 749. In addition to any other funds made available in 
     this Act or any other Act, there is appropriated $5,000,000 
     to carry out section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell 
     National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)), to remain 
     available until expended.
       Sec. 750. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Food and Drug Administration to develop, 
     issue, promote, or advance any regulations applicable to food 
     manufacturers for population-wide sodium reduction actions or 
     to develop, issue, promote or advance final guidance 
     applicable to food manufacturers for long term population-
     wide sodium reduction actions until the date on which a 
     dietary reference intake report with respect to sodium is 
     completed.
       Sec. 751. There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, for the cost of 
     loans and grants that is consistent with section 4206 of the 
     Agricultural Act of 2014, for necessary expenses of the 
     Secretary to support projects that provide access to healthy 
     food in underserved areas, to create and preserve quality 
     jobs, and to revitalize low-income communities.
       Sec. 752. For an additional amount for ``Animal and Plant 
     Health Inspection Service--Salaries and Expenses'', 
     $7,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, for 
     one-time control and management and associated activities 
     directly related to the multiple-agency response to citrus 
     greening.
       Sec. 753. None of the funds made available by this or any 
     other Act may be used to enforce the final rule promulgated 
     by the Food and Drug Administration entitled ``Standards for 
     the Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for 
     Human Consumption,'' and published on November 27, 2015, with 
     respect to the regulation of the production, distribution, 
     sale, or receipt of grape varietals that are grown, harvested 
     and used solely for wine and receive commercial processing 
     that adequately reduces the presence of microorganisms of 
     public health significance.
       Sec. 754. There is hereby appropriated $20,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, for an additional amount for 
     telemedicine and distance learning services in rural areas, 
     as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., to help address the 
     opioid epidemic in rural America.
       Sec. 755. There is hereby appropriated $5,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, for a pilot 
     program for the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to 
     provide grants to nonprofit organizations for programs and 
     services to establish and enhance farming and ranching 
     opportunities for military veterans.
       Sec. 756. There is hereby appropriated $425,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, for an additional amount for 
     Sec. 779 of Public Law 115-141.
       Sec. 757. For an additional amount for the cost of direct 
     loans and grants made under the ``Rural Water and Waste 
     Disposal Program Account'', $400,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.
       Sec. 758. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel--
       (1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the Federal Meat 
     Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
       (2) to inspect horses under section 903 of the Federal 
     Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 
     note; Public Law 104-127); or
       (3) to implement or enforce section 352.19 of title 9, Code 
     of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
       Sec. 759. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to revoke an exception made--
       (1) pursuant to the final rule of the Department of 
     Agriculture entitled ``Exceptions to Geographic Areas for 
     Official Agencies Under the USGSA'' (68 Fed. Reg. 19137 
     (April 18, 2003)); and
       (2) on a date before April 14, 2017.
       Sec. 760. The Secretary of Agriculture shall provide to any 
     State or county impacted by a volcanic eruption covered by a 
     major disaster declared by the President in calendar year 
     2018 in accordance with section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) 
     technical assistance--
       (1) to assess damage to agricultural production and rural 
     infrastructure; and
       (2) to develop recovery plans for impacted farmers, 
     ranchers, and rural communities.
                     research on ocean agriculture
       Sec. 761. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination 
     with the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, shall establish a working group 
     (referred to in this section as the ``working group'')--
       (1) to study how mangroves, kelp forests, tidal marshes, 
     and seagrass meadows could help deacidify the oceans;
       (2) to study emerging ocean farming practices that use kelp 
     and seagrass to deacidify the oceans while providing 
     feedstock for agriculture and other commercial and industrial 
     inputs; and
       (3) to coordinate and conduct research to develop and 
     enhance pilot-scale research for farming of kelp and seagrass 
     in order--
       (A) to deacidify ocean environments;
       (B) to produce a feedstock for agriculture; and
       (C) to develop other scalable commercial applications for 
     kelp, seagrass, or products derived from kelp or seagrass.
       (b) The working group shall include--
       (1) the Secretary of Agriculture;
       (2) the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration;
       (3) representatives of any relevant offices within the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
       (4) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency 
     and Renewable Energy.
       (c) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the working group shall submit to Congress a report 
     that includes--
       (1) the findings of the research described in subsection 
     (a);
       (2) the results of the pilot-scale research described in 
     subsection (a)(3); and
       (3) any policy recommendations based on those findings and 
     results.
       Sec. 762. Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
     submit to Congress a report describing the ways in which 
     conservation programs administered by the Natural Resources 
     Conservation Service may be better used for the conservation 
     of ocelots (Leopardus pardalis) and any action taken by the 
     Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service relating 
     to the conservation of ocelots.
       Sec. 763. Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
     of this Act, the Rural Housing Service of the Department of 
     Agriculture shall submit to Congress a report including--
       (1) a description of--
       (A) the number of properties assisted under title V of the 
     Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.) that are 
     reaching the end of their loan term;
       (B) the location of each property described in subparagraph 
     (A);
       (C) the number of units in each property described in 
     subparagraph (A); and
       (D) the date on which each the loan for each property 
     described in subparagraph (A) is expected to reach maturity;
       (2) the strategy of the Rural Housing Service to preserve 
     the long-term affordability of the properties described in 
     paragraph (1)(A) when the loan matures; and
       (3) a description of the resources and tools that the Rural 
     Housing Service needs from Congress in order to preserve the 
     long-term affordability of the properties described in 
     paragraph (1) (A).
       Sec. 764. Out of amounts appropriated to the Food and Drug 
     Administration under title VI, the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and 
     Drugs, shall, not later than July 1, 2019, and following the 
     review required under Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 
     note; relating to regulatory planning and review), issue 
     advice revising the advice provided in the notice of 
     availability entitled ``Advice About Eating Fish, From the 
     Environmental Protection Agency and Food and Drug 
     Administration; Revised Fish Advice; Availability'' (82 Fed. 
     Reg. 6571 (January 19, 2017)), in a manner that is consistent 
     with nutrition science recognized by the Food and Drug 
     Administration on the net effects of seafood consumption.
       Sec. 765. In administering the pilot program established by 
     section 779 of division A of the Consolidated Appropriations 
     Act, 2018 (Public Law 115-141), the Secretary of Agriculture 
     shall--
       (1) ensure that applicants that are determined to be 
     ineligible for the pilot program have a means of appealing or 
     otherwise challenging that determination in a timely fashion; 
     and
       (2) in determining whether an entity may overbuild or 
     duplicate broadband expansion efforts made by any entity that 
     has received a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities 
     Service, not consider loans that were rescinded or defaulted 
     on, or loans the terms and conditions of which were not met, 
     if the entity under consideration has not previously 
     defaulted on, or failed to meet the terms and conditions of, 
     a Rural Utilities Service loan or had a Rural Utilities 
     Service loan rescinded.
        1890 land-grant colleges, including tuskegee university
       Sec. 767. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     Act, the amounts made available by this Act to carry out 
     sections 1444 and 1445, respectively, of the National 
     Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
     1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3222) shall each be increased by 
     $3,000,000.
       (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
     amount made available under the heading ``(including 
     transfers of funds)'' under the heading ``Agriculture 
     Buildings and Facilities'' under the heading ``AGRICULTURAL 
     PROGRAMS'' in title I shall be decreased by $6,000,000.
       Sec. 768. None of the funds made available by this Act 
     shall be used to enforce the requirement in the final rule 
     entitled ``Food Labeling: Revision of the Nutrition and 
     Supplement Facts Labels'', published in the Federal Register 
     on May 27, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 33742), that any single 
     ingredient sugar, honey, agave, or syrup (including maple
     syrup) that is packaged and offered for sale as a single 
     ingredient food bear the declaration ``Includes `X'g Added 
     Sugars''.
       This division may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural 
     Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related 
     Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019''.
DIVISION D--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
        That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
     Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban 
     Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, namely:
                 TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                        Office of the Secretary
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
     $113,535,000, of which not to exceed $3,001,000 shall be 
     available for the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to 
     exceed $1,040,000 shall be available for the immediate Office 
     of the Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $20,428,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of the General Counsel; not to 
     exceed $10,265,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
     Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
     $14,019,000 shall be available for the Office of the 
     Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed 
     $2,550,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
     Secretary for Governmental Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 
     shall be available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
     for Administration; not to exceed $2,142,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
     $1,835,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
     Secretariat; not to exceed $12,325,000 shall be available for 
     the Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response; 
     and not to exceed $16,686,000 shall be available for the 
     Office of the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That the 
     Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer funds 
     appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to 
     any other office of the Office of the Secretary: Provided 
     further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
     increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by all such 
     transfers: Provided further, That notice of any change in 
     funding greater than 5 percent shall be submitted for 
     approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000 
     shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
     reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may 
     determine: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, excluding fees authorized in Public Law 
     107-71, there may be credited to this appropriation up to 
     $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees: Provided further, 
     That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
     available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public 
     Affairs.
                        research and technology
       For necessary expenses related to the Office of the 
     Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology, $8,471,000, 
     of which $2,218,000 shall remain available until September 
     30, 2021: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
     appropriation, to be available until expended, funds received 
     from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
     authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
     training: Provided further, That any reference in law, 
     regulation, judicial proceedings, or elsewhere to the 
     Research and Innovative Technology Administration shall 
     continue to be deemed to be a reference to the Office of the 
     Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
     Department of Transportation.
                  national infrastructure investments
       For capital investments in surface transportation 
     infrastructure, $1,000,000,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021: Provided, That the Secretary of 
     Transportation shall distribute funds provided under this 
     heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a State, 
     local government, transit agency, port authority, or a 
     collaboration among such entities on a competitive basis for 
     projects that will have a significant local or regional 
     impact: Provided further, That projects eligible for funding 
     provided under this heading shall include, but not be limited 
     to, highway or bridge projects eligible under title 23, 
     United States Code; public transportation projects eligible 
     under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code; passenger 
     and freight rail transportation projects; and port 
     infrastructure investments (including inland port 
     infrastructure and land ports of entry): Provided further, 
     That of the amount made available under this heading, the 
     Secretary may use an amount not to exceed $15,000,000 for the 
     planning, preparation or design of projects eligible for 
     funding under this heading: Provided further, That grants 
     awarded under the previous proviso shall not be subject to a 
     minimum grant size: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
     use up to 20 percent of the funds made available under this 
     heading for the purpose of paying the subsidy and 
     administrative costs of projects eligible for Federal credit 
     assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, 
     or sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization 
     and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as 
     amended, if the Secretary finds that such use of the funds 
     would advance the purposes of this paragraph: Provided 
     further, That in distributing funds provided under this 
     heading, the Secretary shall take such measures so as to 
     ensure an equitable geographic distribution of funds, an 
     appropriate balance in addressing the needs of urban and 
     rural areas, and the investment in a variety of 
     transportation modes: Provided further, That a grant funded 
     under this heading shall be not less than $5,000,000 and not 
     greater than $25,000,000: Provided further, That not more 
     than 10 percent of the funds made available under this 
     heading may be awarded to projects in a single State: 
     Provided further, That the Federal share of the costs for 
     which an expenditure is made under this heading shall be, at 
     the option of the recipient, up to 80 percent: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall give priority to projects 
     that require a contribution of Federal funds in order to 
     complete an overall financing package: Provided further, That 
     not less than 30 percent of the funds provided under this 
     heading shall be for projects located in rural areas: 
     Provided further, That for projects located in rural areas, 
     the minimum grant size shall be $1,000,000 and the Secretary 
     may increase the Federal share of costs above 80 percent: 
     Provided further, That projects conducted using funds 
     provided under this heading must comply with the requirements 
     of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That the Secretary shall conduct a 
     new competition to select the grants and credit assistance 
     awarded under this heading: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary may retain up to $25,000,000 of the funds provided 
     under this heading, and may transfer portions of those funds 
     to the Administrators of the Federal Highway Administration, 
     the Federal Transit Administration, the Federal Railroad 
     Administration, and the Maritime Administration to fund the 
     award and oversight of grants and credit assistance made 
     under the National Infrastructure Investments program: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds provided in the 
     previous proviso may be used to hire additional personnel: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall consider and award 
     projects based solely on the selection criteria from the 
     fiscal year 2016 Notice of Funding Opportunity: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall not use the Federal share 
     or an applicant's ability to generate non-Federal revenue as 
     a selection criteria in awarding projects: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding 
     Opportunity no later than 60 days after enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That the Notice of Funding Opportunity 
     shall require application submissions 90 days after the 
     publishing of such Notice: Provided further, That of the 
     applications submitted under the previous two provisos, the 
     Secretary shall make grants no later than 270 days after 
     enactment of this Act in such amounts that the Secretary 
     determines: Provided further, That such sums provided for 
     national infrastructure investments for passenger rail 
     transportation projects under title I of division C of the 
     Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012 
     (Public Law 112-55; 125 Stat. 641), shall remain available 
     for expenditure through fiscal year 2019 for the liquidation 
     of valid obligations of active grants incurred in fiscal year 
     2012: Provided further, That such sums provided for national 
     infrastructure investments for port infrastructure projects 
     under title VIII of division F of the Consolidated and 
     Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-
     6; 127 Stat. 432) shall remain available through fiscal year 
     2020 for the liquidation of valid obligations of active 
     grants incurred in fiscal year 2013: Provided further, That 
     the 2 preceding provisos shall be applied as if they were in 
     effect on September 30, 2018: Provided further, That after 
     calculating the distribution of obligation limitation for 
     Federal-aid highways for fiscal year 2019 under section 
     120(a), the obligation limitation shall be reduced by 
     $52,000,000 to a total of $45,216,596,000: Provided further, 
     That the reduction in the preceding proviso shall be applied 
     to the obligation limitation determined under section 
     120(a)(4) for the TIFIA program (as defined in section 601(a) 
     of title 23, United States Code).
     national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau
       For necessary expenses of the National Surface 
     Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau as authorized by 
     49 U.S.C. 116, $2,987,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
                      financial management capital
       For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the 
     Department of Transportation's financial systems and re-
     engineering business processes, $2,000,000, to remain 
     available through September 30, 2020.
                       cyber security initiatives
       For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, 
     including necessary upgrades to wide area network and 
     information technology infrastructure, improvement of network 
     perimeter controls and identity management, testing and 
     assessment of information technology against business, 
     security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
     cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure 
     enhancements, and implementation of enhanced security 
     controls on network devices, $15,000,000, to remain available 
     through September 30, 2020.
                         office of civil rights
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, 
     $9,470,000.
  
           transportation planning, research, and development
       For necessary expenses for conducting transportation 
     planning, research, systems development, development 
     activities, and making grants, $7,879,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That of such amount, 
     $1,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses for the 
     Interagency Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center 
     (IIPIC): Provided further, That there may be transferred to 
     this appropriation, to remain available until expended, 
     amounts transferred from other Federal agencies for expenses 
     incurred under this heading for IIPIC activities not related 
     to transportation infrastructure: Provided further, That the 
     tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be available 
     to other Federal agencies for the permitting and review of 
     major infrastructure projects not related to transportation 
     only to the extent that other Federal agencies provide 
     funding to the Department as provided for under the previous 
     proviso.
                          working capital fund
       For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital 
     outlays of the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed 
     $203,883,000, shall be paid from appropriations made 
     available to the Department of Transportation: Provided, That 
     such services shall be provided on a competitive basis to 
     entities within the Department of Transportation: Provided 
     further, That the above limitation on operating expenses 
     shall not apply to non-DOT entities: Provided further, That 
     no funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of the 
     Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund 
     without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund 
     Steering Committee and approval of the Secretary: Provided 
     further, That no assessments may be levied against any 
     program, budget activity, subactivity or project funded by 
     this Act unless notice of such assessments and the basis 
     therefor are presented to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.
               minority business resource center program
       For necessary expenses of the Minority Business Resource 
     Center, the provision of financial education outreach 
     activities to eligible transportation-related small 
     businesses, the monitoring of existing loans in the 
     guaranteed loan program, and the modification of such loans 
     of the Minority Business Resource Center, $249,000, as 
     authorized by 49 U.S.C. 332: Provided, That notwithstanding 
     that section, these funds may be for business opportunities 
     related to any mode of transportation.
       small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach
       For necessary expenses for small and disadvantaged business 
     utilization and outreach activities, $3,488,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may be used for 
     business opportunities related to any mode of transportation.
                        payments to air carriers
                    (airport and airway trust fund)
       In addition to funds made available from any other source 
     to carry out the essential air service program under 49 
     U.S.C. 41731 through 41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from 
     the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That in determining between or among 
     carriers competing to provide service to a community, the 
     Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements of 
     the carriers: Provided further, That basic essential air 
     service minimum requirements shall not include the 15-
     passenger capacity requirement under subsection 41732(b)(3) 
     of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That none 
     of the funds in this Act or any other Act shall be used to 
     enter into a new contract with a community located less than 
     40 miles from the nearest small hub airport before the 
     Secretary has negotiated with the community over a local cost 
     share: Provided further, That amounts authorized to be 
     distributed for the essential air service program under 
     subsection 41742(b) of title 49, United States Code, shall be 
     made available immediately from amounts otherwise provided to 
     the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration: 
     Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse such 
     amounts from fees credited to the account established under 
     section 45303 of title 49, United States Code.
  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation
       Sec. 101. None of the funds made available in this Act to 
     the Department of Transportation may be obligated for the 
     Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve 
     assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds 
     appropriated to the modal administrations in this Act, except 
     for activities underway on the date of enactment of this Act, 
     unless such assessments or agreements have completed the 
     normal reprogramming process for Congressional notification.
       Sec. 102. The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
     Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of 
     the Council on Credit and Finance, including the agenda for 
     each meeting, and require the Council on Credit and Finance 
     to record the decisions and actions of each meeting.
       Sec. 103. In addition to authority provided by section 327 
     of title 49, United States Code, the Department's Working 
     Capital Fund is hereby authorized to provide partial or full 
     payments in advance and accept subsequent reimbursements from 
     all Federal agencies from available funds for transit benefit 
     distribution services that are necessary to carry out the 
     Federal transit pass transportation fringe benefit program 
     under Executive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of Public 
     Law 109-59: Provided, That the Department shall maintain a 
     reasonable operating reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to 
     be expended in advance to provide uninterrupted transit 
     benefits to Government employees: Provided further, That such 
     reserve will not exceed one month of benefits payable and may 
     be used only for the purpose of providing for the 
     continuation of transit benefits: Provided further, That the 
     Working Capital Fund will be fully reimbursed by each 
     customer agency from available funds for the actual cost of 
     the transit benefit.
                    Federal Aviation Administration
                               operations
                    (airport and airway trust fund)
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration, not otherwise provided for, including 
     operations and research activities related to commercial 
     space transportation, administrative expenses for research 
     and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
     the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of 
     aircraft, subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and 
     maps sold to the public, the lease or purchase of passenger 
     motor vehicles for replacement only, in addition to amounts 
     made available by Public Law 112-95, $10,410,758,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, of which 
     $9,833,400,000 shall be derived from the Airport and Airway 
     Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $7,843,427,000 shall be 
     available for air traffic organization activities; not to 
     exceed $1,334,377,000 shall be available for aviation safety 
     activities; not to exceed $24,981,000 shall be available for 
     commercial space transportation activities; not to exceed 
     $816,562,000 shall be available for finance and management 
     activities; not to exceed $61,796,000 shall be available for 
     NextGen and operations planning activities; not to exceed 
     $114,312,000 shall be available for security and hazardous 
     materials safety; and not to exceed $215,303,000 shall be 
     available for staff offices: Provided, That not to exceed 5 
     percent of any budget activity, except for aviation safety 
     budget activity, may be transferred to any budget activity 
     under this heading: Provided further, That no transfer may 
     increase or decrease any appropriation by more than 5 
     percent: Provided further, That any transfer in excess of 5 
     percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
     section 405 of this Act and shall not be available for 
     obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
     procedures set forth in that section: Provided further, That 
     not later than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter, the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall 
     transmit to Congress an annual update to the report submitted 
     to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 221 of 
     Public Law 108-176: Provided further, That the amount herein 
     appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each day after 
     March 31 that such report has not been submitted to the 
     Congress: Provided further, That not later than March 31 of 
     each fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator shall transmit 
     to Congress a companion report that describes a comprehensive 
     strategy for staffing, hiring, and training flight standards 
     and aircraft certification staff in a format similar to the 
     one utilized for the controller staffing plan, including 
     stated attrition estimates and numerical hiring goals by 
     fiscal year: Provided further, That the amount herein 
     appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each 
     day after March 31 that such report has not been submitted to 
     Congress: Provided further, That funds may be used to enter 
     into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
     organization to assist in the development of aviation safety 
     standards: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
     Act shall be available for new applicants for the second 
     career training program: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds in this Act shall be available for the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to finalize or implement any regulation that 
     would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically 
     authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
     appropriation, as offsetting collections, funds received from 
     States, counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other 
     public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred 
     in the provision of agency services, including receipts for 
     the maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, 
     and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, 
     including airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, 
     or for tests related thereto, or for processing major repair 
     or alteration forms: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, not less than $168,000,000 
     shall be used to fund direct operations of the current 254 
     air traffic control towers in the contract tower program, 
     including the contract tower cost share program, and any 
     airport that is currently qualified or that will qualify for 
     the program during the fiscal year: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical charting and 
     cartography are available for activities conducted by, or 
     coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund: Provided 
     further, That none of the funds appropriated
     or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act may 
     be used to eliminate the Contract Weather Observers program 
     at any airport: Provided further, That of the amount 
     appropriated under this heading, up to $6,000,000 shall be 
     used for providing matching funds to qualified commercial 
     entities seeking to demonstrate or validate technologies that 
     the Federal Aviation Administration considers essential to 
     the safe integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) in 
     the National Airspace System at Federal Aviation 
     Administration designated UAS test sites: Provided further, 
     That not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration shall identify essential integration 
     technologies that could be demonstrated or validated at test 
     sites designated in accordance with the preceding proviso.
                        facilities and equipment
                    (airport and airway trust fund)
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
     acquisition, establishment, technical support services, 
     improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of national 
     airspace systems and experimental facilities and equipment, 
     as authorized under part A of subtitle VII of title 49, 
     United States Code, including initial acquisition of 
     necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and service 
     testing, including construction of test facilities and 
     acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; 
     construction and furnishing of quarters and related 
     accommodations for officers and employees of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration stationed at remote localities where 
     such accommodations are not available; and the purchase, 
     lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
     this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation and 
     certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
     Trust Fund, $3,000,000,000, of which $512,823,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, $2,362,977,000 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2021, and 
     $124,200,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
     received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
     authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
     the establishment, improvement, and modernization of national 
     airspace systems: Provided further, That no later than March 
     31, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the 
     Congress an investment plan for the Federal Aviation 
     Administration which includes funding for each budget line 
     item for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, with total funding 
     for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets 
     for those years as estimated and approved by the Office of 
     Management and Budget.
                 research, engineering, and development
                    (airport and airway trust fund)
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
     research, engineering, and development, as authorized under 
     part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
     including construction of experimental facilities and 
     acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, 
     $191,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
     Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
     Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation as 
     offsetting collections, funds received from States, counties, 
     municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
     sources, which shall be available for expenses incurred for 
     research, engineering, and development.
                       grants-in-aid for airports
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                      (limitation on obligations)
                    (airport and airway trust fund)
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid 
     for airport planning and development, and noise compatibility 
     planning and programs as authorized under subchapter I of 
     chapter 471 and subchapter I of chapter 475 of title 49, 
     United States Code, and under other law authorizing such 
     obligations; for procurement, installation, and commissioning 
     of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
     airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 
     41743 of title 49, United States Code; and for inspection 
     activities and administration of airport safety programs, 
     including those related to airport operating certificates 
     under section 44706 of title 49, United States Code, 
     $3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
     Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That none of the funds under this heading shall be available 
     for the planning or execution of programs the obligations for 
     which are in excess of $3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2019, 
     notwithstanding section 47117(g) of title 49, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That none of the funds under this 
     heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
     conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, 
     or other airport improvements that are necessary to install 
     bulk explosive detection systems: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 47109(a) of title 49, United States 
     Code, the Government's share of allowable project costs under 
     paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3) of that section 
     shall be 95 percent for a project at other than a large or 
     medium hub airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
     phased construction project for which the project sponsor 
     received a grant in fiscal year 2011 for the construction 
     project: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, of funds limited under this heading, not 
     more than $112,600,000 shall be available for administration, 
     not less than $15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport 
     Cooperative Research Program, not less than $33,210,000 shall 
     be available for Airport Technology Research, and 
     $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
     available and transferred to ``Office of the Secretary, 
     Salaries and Expenses'' to carry out the Small Community Air 
     Service Development Program: Provided further, That in 
     addition to airports eligible under section 41743 of title 
     49, United States Code, such program may include the 
     participation of an airport that serves a community or 
     consortium that is not larger than a small hub airport, 
     according to FAA hub classifications effective at the time 
     the Office of the Secretary issues a request for proposals.
                       grants-in-aid for airports
       For an additional amount for ``Grants-In-Aid for 
     Airports'', to enable the Secretary of Transportation to make 
     grants for projects as authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 
     471 and subchapter 1 of chapter 475 of title 49, United 
     States Code, $750,000,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021: Provided, That amounts made available 
     under this heading shall be derived from the general fund, 
     and such funds shall not be subject to apportionment 
     formulas, special apportionment categories, or minimum 
     percentages under chapter 471: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall distribute funds provided under this heading 
     as discretionary grants to airports: Provided further, That 
     the amount made available under this heading shall not be 
     subject to any limitation on obligations for the Grants-in-
     Aid for Airports program set forth in any Act: Provided 
     further, That the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration may retain up to 0.5 percent of the funds 
     provided under this heading to fund the award and oversight 
     by the Administrator of grants made under this heading.
       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration
       Sec. 110. None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     compensate in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the 
     federally funded research and development center contract 
     between the Federal Aviation Administration and the Center 
     for Advanced Aviation Systems Development during fiscal year 
     2019.
       Sec. 111. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to 
     pursue or adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport 
     sponsors to provide to the Federal Aviation Administration 
     without cost building construction, maintenance, utilities 
     and expenses, or space in airport sponsor-owned buildings for 
     services relating to air traffic control, air navigation, or 
     weather reporting: Provided, That the prohibition of funds in 
     this section does not apply to negotiations between the 
     agency and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-
     market'' rates for these items or to grant assurances that 
     require airport sponsors to provide land without cost to the 
     Federal Aviation Administration for air traffic control 
     facilities.
       Sec. 112. The Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration may reimburse amounts made available to 
     satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 
     U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in such account at the 
     close of that fiscal year may be made available to satisfy 
     section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
       Sec. 113. Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 
     49, United States Code, shall be credited to the 
     appropriation current at the time of collection, to be merged 
     with and available for the same purposes of such 
     appropriation.
       Sec. 114. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     for paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, 
     United States Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration 
     employee unless such employee actually performed work during 
     the time corresponding to such premium pay.
       Sec. 115. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
     expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to purchase a store gift card or gift 
     certificate through use of a Government-issued credit card.
       Sec. 116. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
     expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration without the prior written approval of 
     the Assistant Secretary for Administration of the Department 
     of Transportation.
       Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available under this Act or any prior Act 
     may be used to implement or to continue to implement any 
     limitation on the ability of any owner or operator of a 
     private aircraft to obtain, upon a request to the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a 
     blocking of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration 
     number from any display of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration's Aircraft Situational Display to Industry 
     data that is made available to the public, except data made 
     available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
     flights of that owner or operator.
       Sec. 118. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     for salaries and expenses of more than eight political and 
     Presidential
     appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
       Sec. 119. None of the funds made available under this Act 
     may be used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of 
     title 49, United States Code, until the Federal Aviation 
     Administration provides to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations a report that justifies all fees related to 
     aeronautical navigation products and explains how such fees 
     are consistent with Executive Order 13642.
       Sec. 119A. None of the funds in this Act may be used to 
     close a regional operations center of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration or reduce its services unless the 
     Administrator notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations not less than 90 full business days in 
     advance.
       Sec. 119B. None of the funds appropriated or limited by 
     this Act may be used to change weight restrictions or prior 
     permission rules at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New 
     Jersey.
       Sec. 119C. None of the funds provided under this Act may be 
     used by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
     Administration to withhold from consideration and approval 
     any new application for participation in the Contract Tower 
     Program, or for reevaluation of Cost-share Program 
     participants, as long as the Federal Aviation Administration 
     has received an application from the airport, and as long as 
     the Administrator determines such tower is eligible using the 
     factors set forth in the Federal Aviation Administration 
     report, Establishment and Discontinuance Criteria for Airport 
     Traffic Control Towers (FAA-APO-90-7 as of August, 1990).
       Sec. 119D. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
     of the funds made available in this Act may be obligated or 
     expended to limit the use of an Organization Designation 
     Authorization's (ODA) delegated functions documented in its 
     procedures manual on a type certification project unless the 
     Administrator documents a systemic airworthiness 
     noncompliance performance issue as a result of inspection or 
     oversight that the safety of air commerce requires a 
     limitation with regard to a specific authorization or where 
     an ODA's capability has not been previously established in 
     terms of a new compliance method or design feature: Provided, 
     That in such cases the Federal Aviation Administration shall 
     work with the ODA holder if requested to develop the 
     capability to execute that function safely, efficiently and 
     effectively.
       Sec. 119E. (a) Terminal Aerodrome Forecast.--The 
     Administrator shall permit an air carrier operation under 
     part 121 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, to operate 
     to a destination determined to be under visual flight rules 
     without a Terminal Aerodrome Forecast or Meteorological 
     Aerodrome Report if a current Area Forecast, supplemented by 
     other local weather observations or reports, is available, 
     and an alternate airport that has an available Terminal 
     Aerodrome Forecast and weather report is specified. The air 
     carrier shall have approved procedures for dispatch and en 
     route weather evaluation and shall operate under instrument 
     flight rules en route to the destination.
       (b) Limitation.--Without a written finding of necessity, 
     based on objective and historical evidence of imminent threat 
     to safety, the Administrator shall not promulgate any 
     operation specification, policy, or guidance document that is 
     more restrictive than, or requires procedures that are not 
     expressly stated in, the regulations.
       Sec. 119F. Of the funds provided under the heading 
     ``Grants-in-aid for Airports'', up to $3,500,000 shall be for 
     necessary expenses, including an independent verification 
     regime, to provide reimbursement to airport sponsors that do 
     not provide gateway operations and providers of general 
     aviation ground support services located at those airports 
     closed during a temporary flight restriction (TFR) for any 
     residence of the President that is designated or identified 
     to be secured by the United States Secret Service, and for 
     direct and incremental financial losses incurred while such 
     airports are closed solely due to the actions of the Federal 
     Government: Provided, That no funds shall be obligated or 
     distributed to airport sponsors that do not provide gateway 
     operations and providers of general aviation ground support 
     services until an independent audit is completed: Provided 
     further, That losses incurred as a result of violations of 
     law, or through fault or negligence, of such operators and 
     service providers or of third parties (including airports) 
     are not eligible for reimbursements: Provided further, That 
     obligation and expenditure of funds are conditional upon full 
     release of the United States Government for all claims for 
     financial losses resulting from such actions.
                    report on nextgen implementation
       Sec. 119G. (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit 
     to Congress a report on the implementation of NextGen at 
     commercial service airports in the United States.
       (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include the following:
       (1) The number and percentage of commercial service 
     airports in the United States that have fully implemented 
     NextGen.
       (2) The percentage completion of NextGen implementation at 
     each commercial service airport in the United States.
       (c) Development of Standard to Determine Percentage 
     Implementation of NextGen.--
       (1) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a standard 
     for determining under subsection (b)(2) the percentage 
     completion of NextGen implementation at commercial service 
     airports in the United States based on factors that may 
     include an accounting of efficiency benefits achieved, the 
     degree of NextGen technology and infrastructure installed, 
     and the extent of controller training on NextGen.
       (2) Inclusion in report.--The Administrator shall include 
     in the report submitted under subsection (a) the standard 
     developed under paragraph (1).
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
       (2) Nextgen.--The term ``NextGen'' means the Next 
     Generation Air Transportation System.
                     Federal Highway Administration
                 limitation on administrative expenses
                          (highway trust fund)
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Not to exceed $446,444,304, together with advances and 
     reimbursements received by the Federal Highway 
     Administration, shall be obligated for necessary expenses for 
     administration and operation of the Federal Highway 
     Administration. In addition, $3,248,000 shall be transferred 
     to the Appalachian Regional Commission in accordance with 
     section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.
                          federal-aid highways
                      (limitation on obligations)
                          (highway trust fund)
       Funds available for the implementation or execution of 
     Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs 
     authorized under titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and 
     the provisions of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
     Act shall not exceed total obligations of $45,268,596,000 for 
     fiscal year 2019: Provided, That the Secretary may collect 
     and spend fees, as authorized by title 23, United States 
     Code, to cover the costs of services of expert firms, 
     including counsel, in the field of municipal and project 
     finance to assist in the underwriting and servicing of 
     Federal credit instruments and all or a portion of the costs 
     to the Federal Government of servicing such credit 
     instruments: Provided further, That such fees are available 
     until expended to pay for such costs: Provided further, That 
     such amounts are in addition to administrative expenses that 
     are also available for such purpose, and are not subject to 
     any obligation limitation or the limitation on administrative 
     expenses under section 608 of title 23, United States Code.
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                          (highway trust fund)
       For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
     Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs 
     authorized under title 23, United States Code, 
     $46,007,596,000 derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other 
     than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until 
     expended.
                    highway infrastructure programs
       There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of 
     Transportation $3,300,000,000: Provided, That the amounts 
     made available under this heading shall be derived from the 
     general fund, shall be in addition to any funds provided for 
     fiscal year 2019 in this or any other Act for ``Federal-aid 
     Highways'' under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, 
     and shall not affect the distribution or amount of funds 
     provided in any other Act: Provided further, That section 
     1101(b) of Public Law 114-94 shall apply to funds made 
     available under this heading: Provided further, That of the 
     funds made available under this heading, $2,389,200,000 shall 
     be set aside for activities eligible under section 
     133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code, $15,800,000 
     shall be set aside for activities eligible under the Puerto 
     Rico Highway Program as described in section 165(b)(2)(C) of 
     such title, $5,000,000 shall be set aside for activities 
     eligible under the Territorial Highway Program, as described 
     in section 165(c)(6) of such title, $90,000,000 shall be set 
     aside for the elimination of hazards and installation of 
     protective devices at railway-highway crossings, as described 
     in section 130(e)(1)(A) of such title, and $800,000,000 shall 
     be set aside for a bridge replacement and rehabilitation 
     program for States: Provided further, That for purposes of 
     this heading, the term ``State'' means any of the 50 States 
     or the District of Columbia: Provided further, That the funds 
     made available under this heading for activities eligible 
     under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code, 
     shall be suballocated in the manner described in section 
     133(d) of such title, except that the set-aside described in 
     section 133(h) of such title shall not apply to funds made 
     available under this heading: Provided further, That the 
     funds made available under this heading for (1) activities 
     eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of such title (2) the 
     elimination of hazards and installation of protective devices 
     at railway-highway crossings, and (3) a bridge replacement 
     and rehabilitation program shall be administered as if 
     apportioned under chapter 1 of such title and shall remain 
     available through September 30, 2022: Provided further, That 
     the funds made available under this heading for activities 
     eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United 
     States Code, shall be apportioned to the States in the same 
     ratio as the obligation limitation for fiscal year 2019 is 
     distributed among the States in section 120(a)(5) of
     this Act: Provided further, That, except as provided in the 
     following proviso, the funds made available under this 
     heading for activities eligible under the Puerto Rico Highway 
     Program and activities eligible under the Territorial Highway 
     Program shall be administered as if allocated under sections 
     165(b) and 165(c), respectively, of such title and shall 
     remain available through September 30, 2022: Provided 
     further, That the funds made available under this heading for 
     activities eligible under the Puerto Rico Highway Program 
     shall not be subject to the requirements of sections 
     165(b)(2)(A) or 165(b)(2)(B) of such title: Provided further, 
     That the funds made available under this heading for the 
     elimination of hazards and installation of protective devices 
     at railway-highway crossings shall be apportioned to the 
     States as described in sections 130(f)(1) and (f)(2) of such 
     title: Provided further, That at least one-half of the funds 
     made available to a State under this heading for the 
     elimination of hazards and installation of protective devices 
     at railway-highway crossings shall be available for the 
     installation of protective devices at railway-highway 
     crossings: Provided further, That the funds made available 
     under this heading for the elimination of hazards and 
     installation of protective devices at railway-highway 
     crossings shall be subject to the special rule described in 
     section 130(e)(2) of such title: Provided further, That 
     projects carried out with funds made available under this 
     heading for the elimination of hazards and installation of 
     protective devices at railway-highway crossings shall be (1) 
     subject to sections 130(b), (c), and (j) of such title, (2) 
     included in the annual report described in section 130(g) of 
     such title, and (3) subject to the Federal share requirement 
     described in section 130(f)(3) of such title: Provided 
     further, That the funds made available under this heading for 
     the elimination of hazards and installation of protective 
     devices at railway-highway crossings shall be (1) available 
     for matching, as described in section 130(h) of such title, 
     subject to the requirements of such section, (2) available 
     for incentive payments, as described in section 130(i) of 
     such title, subject to the requirements of such section, and 
     (3) subject to the limitation in section 130(k) of such 
     title: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
     this heading for a bridge replacement and rehabilitation 
     program shall be used for highway bridge replacement or 
     rehabilitation projects on public roads: Provided further, 
     That except as provided in the following proviso the funds 
     made available under this heading for a bridge replacement 
     and rehabilitation program shall be used in areas of a State 
     that have a population of 200,000 or fewer individuals: 
     Provided further, That if a State has no bridges located in 
     areas with a population of 200,000 or fewer individuals, or 
     if a State has no bridge replacement or rehabilitation needs 
     in areas of the State with a population of 200,000 or fewer 
     individuals, the funds made available under this heading for 
     a bridge replacement and rehabilitation program may be used 
     for highway bridge replacement or rehabilitation projects on 
     public roads in any area of the State: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall distribute funds made available under 
     this heading for the bridge replacement and rehabilitation 
     program to each State by the proportion that the percentage 
     of total deck area of bridges classified as in poor condition 
     in each State bears to the sum of the percentages of total 
     deck area of bridges classified as in poor condition in all 
     States: Provided further, That for purposes of this heading 
     for the bridge replacement and rehabilitation program, the 
     Secretary shall (1) calculate population based on the latest 
     available data from the decennial census conducted under 
     section 141(a) of title 13, United States Code, and (2) 
     calculate the percentages of total deck area of bridges 
     classified as in poor condition based on the National Bridge 
     Inventory as of December 31, 2017.
       administrative provisions--federal highway administration
       Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of 
     Transportation shall--
       (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
     Federal-aid highways--
       (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses and 
     programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code; 
     and
       (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of Transportation 
     Statistics;
       (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
     for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
     balance of amounts--
       (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than 
     the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highway and highway 
     safety construction programs for previous fiscal years the 
     funds for which are allocated by the Secretary (or 
     apportioned by the Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of 
     title 23, United States Code); and
       (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in a 
     previous fiscal year;
       (3) determine the proportion that--
       (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways, 
     less the aggregate of amounts not distributed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears to
       (B) the total of the sums authorized to be appropriated for 
     the Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction 
     programs (other than sums authorized to be appropriated for 
     provisions of law described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of 
     subsection (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for 
     section 119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
     amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such fiscal 
     year), less the aggregate of the amounts not distributed 
     under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection;
       (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
     highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
     programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated 
     by the Secretary under the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act and title 23, United States Code, or 
     apportioned by the Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of 
     that title, by multiplying--
       (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); by
       (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for each such 
     program for such fiscal year; and
       (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
     highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
     paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
     construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
     under title 23, United States Code, (other than the amounts 
     apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
     section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
     from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
     apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
     proportion that--
       (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the programs 
     that are apportioned under title 23, United States Code, to 
     each State for such fiscal year; bears to
       (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
     for the programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
     States Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
       (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
     limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to 
     obligations under or for--
       (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
       (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
     Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
       (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
     Stat. 1701);
       (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
     Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
       (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
     Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
     (101 Stat. 198);
       (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
     Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
       (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
     effect on June 8, 1998);
       (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
     effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
     amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
       (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
     authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
     Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts 
     for multiple years or to remain available until expended, but 
     only to the extent that the obligation authority has not 
     lapsed or been used;
       (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
     effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
     amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
       (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
     Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
     with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
     obligations at the time at which the funds were initially 
     made available for obligation; and
       (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
     each of fiscal years 2013 through 2019, only in an amount 
     equal to $639,000,000).
       (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--
     Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after 
     August 1 of such fiscal year--
       (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
     available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed 
     cannot be obligated during that fiscal year; and
       (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
     obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
     during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States 
     having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under 
     sections 144 (as in effect on the day before the date of 
     enactment of Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United 
     States Code.
       (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to 
     Transportation Research Programs.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
     obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
     contract authority for transportation research programs 
     carried out under--
       (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
       (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
     Act.
       (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
     paragraph (1) shall--
       (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal years; and
       (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation imposed 
     on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
     construction programs for future fiscal years.
       (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
     distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), 
     the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds 
     (excluding funds authorized for the program under section 202 
     of title 23, United States Code) that--
       (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year 
     for Federal-aid highway programs; and
       (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated to the 
     States (or will not be apportioned to the States under 
     section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and will not be 
     available for obligation, for such fiscal year because of the 
     imposition of any obligation limitation for such fiscal year.
       (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
     in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
     authority under subsection (a)(5).
       (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
     paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
     section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
       Sec. 121. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by 
     the Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data 
     products, for necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 
     63 of title 49, United States Code, may be credited to the 
     Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing 
     the Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall 
     be subject to the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
     highway and highway safety construction programs.
       Sec. 122. Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his 
     or her statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for 
     Federal-aid highways projects, the Secretary of 
     Transportation shall make an informal public notice and 
     comment opportunity on the intent to issue such waiver and 
     the reasons therefor: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees 
     on Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy 
     America requirements.
       Sec. 123. None of the funds provided in this Act to the 
     Department of Transportation may be used to provide credit 
     assistance unless not less than 3 days before any application 
     approval to provide credit assistance under sections 603 and 
     604 of title 23, United States Code, the Secretary of 
     Transportation provides notification in writing to the 
     following committees: the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations; the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
     and the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of 
     the Senate; and the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure of the House of Representatives: Provided, 
     That such notification shall include, but not be limited to, 
     the name of the project sponsor; a description of the 
     project; whether credit assistance will be provided as a 
     direct loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and the 
     amount of credit assistance.
       Sec. 124. None of the funds in this Act may be used to make 
     a grant for a project under section 117 of title 23, United 
     States Code, unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before 
     making a grant under that section, provides written 
     notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations of the proposed grant, including an evaluation 
     and justification for the project and the amount of the 
     proposed grant award: Provided, That the written notification 
     required in the previous proviso shall be made no later than 
     180 days after enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined in section 
     165 of title 23, United States Code, may use for any project 
     eligible under section 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of 
     title 23 and located within the boundary of the State or 
     territory any earmarked amount, and any associated obligation 
     limitation: Provided, That the Department of Transportation 
     for the State or territory for which the earmarked amount was 
     originally designated or directed notifies the Secretary of 
     Transportation of its intent to use its authority under this 
     section and submits a quarterly report to the Secretary 
     identifying the projects to which the funding would be 
     applied. Notwithstanding the original period of availability 
     of funds to be obligated under this section, such funds and 
     associated obligation limitation shall remain available for 
     obligation for a period of 3 fiscal years after the fiscal 
     year in which the Secretary of Transportation is notified. 
     The Federal share of the cost of a project carried out with 
     funds made available under this section shall be the same as 
     associated with the earmark.
       (b) In this section, the term ``earmarked amount'' means--
       (1) congressionally directed spending, as defined in rule 
     XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, identified in a 
     prior law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
     authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
     fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and 
     administered by the Federal Highway Administration; or
       (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives identified in a prior 
     law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
     authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
     fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and 
     administered by the Federal Highway Administration.
       (c) The authority under subsection (a) may be exercised 
     only for those projects or activities that have obligated 
     less than 10 percent of the amount made available for 
     obligation as of October 1 of the current fiscal year, and 
     shall be applied to projects within the same general 
     geographic area within 50 miles for which the funding was 
     designated, except that a State or territory may apply such 
     authority to unexpended balances of funds from projects or 
     activities the State or territory certifies have been closed 
     and for which payments have been made under a final voucher.
       (d) The Secretary shall submit consolidated reports of the 
     information provided by the States and territories each 
     quarter to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
              motor carrier safety operations and programs
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                      (limitation on obligations)
                          (highway trust fund)
       For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
     execution and administration of motor carrier safety 
     operations and programs pursuant to section 31110 of title 
     49, United States Code, as amended by the Fixing America's 
     Surface Transportation Act, $284,000,000, to be derived from 
     the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), 
     together with advances and reimbursements received by the 
     Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of which 
     shall remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
     available for implementation, execution or administration of 
     motor carrier safety operations and programs authorized under 
     title 49, United States Code, shall not exceed total 
     obligations of $284,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier Safety 
     Operations and Programs'' for fiscal year 2019, of which 
     $9,073,000, to remain available for obligation until 
     September 30, 2021, is for the research and technology 
     program, and of which $34,824,000, to remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2021, is for information 
     management.
                      motor carrier safety grants
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                      (limitation on obligations)
                          (highway trust fund)
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
     sections 31102, 31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United 
     States Code, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act, $382,800,000, to be derived from the 
     Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) and 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
     available for the implementation or execution of motor 
     carrier safety programs shall not exceed total obligations of 
     $382,800,000 in fiscal year 2019 for ``Motor Carrier Safety 
     Grants''; of which $304,300,000 shall be available for the 
     motor carrier safety assistance program, $32,500,000 shall be 
     available for the commercial driver's license program 
     implementation program, $44,000,000 shall be available for 
     the high priority activities program, and $2,000,000 shall be 
     made available for commercial motor vehicle operators grants, 
     of which $1,000,000 is to be made available from prior year 
     unobligated contract authority provided for Motor Carrier 
     Safety grants in the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
     Century (Public Law 105-178), SAFETEA-LU (Public Law 109-59), 
     or other appropriations or authorization acts.
 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration
       Sec. 130. Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall 
     be subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 
     350 of Public Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-
     28.
       Sec. 131. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration 
     shall send notice of 49 CFR section 385.308 violations by 
     certified mail, registered mail, or another manner of 
     delivery, which records the receipt of the notice by the 
     persons responsible for the violations.
       Sec. 132. To the maximum extent practicable, the Federal 
     Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall ensure the safe and 
     timely completion of the flexible sleeper berth pilot program 
     of the Administration.
             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
                        operations and research
       For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the 
     Secretary, with respect to traffic and highway safety 
     authorized under chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of 
     title 49, United States Code, $190,000,000, of which 
     $40,000,000 shall remain available through September 30, 
     2020.
                        operations and research
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                      (limitation on obligations)
                          (highway trust fund)
       For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
     provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403, section 4011 of the FAST Act 
     (Public Law 114-94), and chapter 303 of title 49, United 
     States Code, $152,100,000, to be derived from the Highway 
     Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) and to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the 
     funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
     execution of programs the total obligations for which, in 
     fiscal year 2019, are in excess of $152,100,000, of which 
     $146,700,000 shall be for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 
     403 and $5,400,000 shall be for the National Driver Register 
     authorized under chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code: 
     Provided further, That within the $152,100,000 obligation 
     limitation for operations and research, $20,000,000 shall 
     remain
     available until September 30, 2020, and shall be in addition 
     to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for 
     future years.
                     highway traffic safety grants
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                      (limitation on obligations)
                          (highway trust fund)
       For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 
     provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 
     4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
     Act, to remain available until expended, $610,208,000, to be 
     derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
     Transit Account): Provided, That none of the funds in this 
     Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
     programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 
     2019, are in excess of $610,208,000 for programs authorized 
     under 23 U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of 
     the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, of which 
     $270,400,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 
     23 U.S.C. 402; $283,000,000 shall be for ``National Priority 
     Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $30,200,000 shall be 
     for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 
     404; and $26,608,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' 
     under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act: Provided further, That none of these 
     funds shall be used for construction, rehabilitation, or 
     remodeling costs, or for office furnishings and fixtures for 
     State, local or private buildings or structures: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made 
     available for ``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 
     U.S.C. 405 for ``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as 
     described in subsection (d) of that section) shall be 
     available for technical assistance to the States: Provided 
     further, That with respect to the ``Transfers'' provision 
     under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to 
     increase the amounts made available under section 402 shall 
     include the obligation authority for such amounts: Provided 
     further, That the Administrator shall notify the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the 
     authority granted under the previous proviso or under 23 
     U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.
      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration
       Sec. 140. An additional $130,000 shall be made available to 
     the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of 
     the amount limited for section 402 of title 23, United States 
     Code, to pay for travel and related expenses for State 
     management reviews and to pay for core competency development 
     training and related expenses for highway safety staff.
       Sec. 141. The limitations on obligations for the programs 
     of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in 
     this Act shall not apply to obligations for which obligation 
     authority was made available in previous public laws but only 
     to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
     been used.
       Sec. 142. In addition to the amounts made available under 
     the heading, ``Operations and Research (Liquidation of 
     Contract Authorization) (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway 
     Trust Fund)'' for carrying out the provisions of section 403 
     of title 23, United States Code, $4,000,000 shall be 
     available to continue a high visibility enforcement paid-
     media campaign regarding highway-rail grade crossing safety 
     in collaboration with the Federal Railroad Administration.
                    Federal Railroad Administration
                         safety and operations
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad 
     Administration, not otherwise provided for, $221,698,000, of 
     which $15,900,000 shall remain available until expended.
                   railroad research and development
       For necessary expenses for railroad research and 
     development, $40,600,000, to remain available until expended.
       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program
       The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue 
     direct loans and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 
     through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory 
     Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, such 
     authority shall exist as long as any such direct loan or loan 
     guarantee is outstanding.
           federal-state partnership for state of good repair
       For necessary expenses related to Federal-State Partnership 
     for State of Good Repair Grants as authorized by section 
     24911 of title 49, United States Code, $300,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary 
     may withhold up to one percent of the amount provided under 
     this heading for the costs of award and project management 
     oversight of grants carried out under section 24911 of title 
     49, United States Code: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall issue the Notice of Funding Opportunity that 
     encompasses funds provided under this heading in this Act and 
     previously unawarded funds provided under this heading in 
     fiscal year 2017 by Public Law 115-31 and fiscal year 2018 by 
     Public Law 115-141, no later than 30 days after enactment of 
     this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary shall announce 
     the selection of projects to receive awards for the funds in 
     the previous proviso no later than 180 days after enactment 
     of this Act.
        consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements
       For necessary expenses related to Consolidated Rail 
     Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Grants, as authorized 
     by section 24407 of title 49, United States Code, 
     $255,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That section 24405(f) of title 49, United States Code, shall 
     not apply to projects for the implementation of positive 
     train control systems otherwise eligible under section 
     24407(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code: Provided 
     further, That amounts available under this heading for 
     projects selected for commuter rail passenger transportation 
     may be transferred by the Secretary, after selection, to the 
     appropriate agencies to be administered in accordance with 
     chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary shall not limit eligible projects from 
     consideration for funding for planning, engineering, 
     environmental, construction, and design elements of the same 
     project in the same application: Provided further, That 
     unobligated balances remaining after 4 years from the date of 
     enactment may be used for any eligible project under section 
     24407(c) of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the 
     amount provided under this heading for the costs of award and 
     project management oversight of grants carried out under 
     section 24407 of title 49, United States Code: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding 
     Opportunity that encompasses previously unawarded funds 
     provided under this heading in fiscal year 2018 by Public Law 
     115-141 and funds provided under this heading in this Act no 
     later than 30 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall announce the selection of 
     projects to receive awards for the funds in the previous 
     proviso no later than 120 days after enactment of this Act.
                      restoration and enhancement
       For necessary expenses related to Restoration and 
     Enhancement Grants, as authorized by section 24408 of title 
     49, United States Code, $10,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up 
     to one percent of the funds provided under this heading to 
     fund the costs of award and project management and oversight: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue the Notice 
     of Funding Opportunity for funds provided under this heading 
     no later than 30 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall announce the selection of 
     projects to receive awards for the funds in the previous 
     proviso no later than 120 days after enactment of this Act.
     northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation
       To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to 
     the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities 
     associated with the Northeast Corridor as authorized by 
     section 11101(a) of the Fixing America's Surface 
     Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
     $650,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That the Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of 
     the funds provided under both this heading and the ``National 
     Network Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
     Corporation'' heading to fund the costs of project management 
     and oversight of activities authorized by section 11101(c) of 
     division A of Public Law 114-94: Provided further, That in 
     addition to the project management oversight funds authorized 
     under section 11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94, 
     the Secretary may retain up to an additional $5,000,000 of 
     the funds provided under this heading to fund expenses 
     associated with the Northeast Corridor Commission established 
     under section 24905 of title 49, United States Code: Provided 
     further, That of the amounts made available under this 
     heading and the ``National Network Grants to the National 
     Railroad Passenger Corporation'' heading, not less than 
     $50,000,000 shall be made available to bring Amtrak-served 
     facilities and stations into compliance with the Americans 
     with Disabilities Act: Provided further, That of the amounts 
     made available under this heading and the heading ``National 
     Network Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
     Corporation'', not more than $500,000 may be made available 
     to provide a discount of not less than 15 percent on 
     passenger fares to veterans (as defined in section 101 of 
     title 38, United States Code).
 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation
       To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to 
     the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities 
     associated with the National Network as authorized by section 
     11101(b) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act 
     (division A of Public Law 114-94), $1,291,600,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary may 
     retain up to an additional $2,000,000 of the funds provided 
     under this heading to fund expenses associated with the 
     State-Supported Route Committee established under section 
     24712 of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That 
     at least $50,000,000 of the amount provided under this 
     heading shall be available for the development, installation 
     and operation of railroad safety technology, including the 
     implementation of a positive train control system, on State-
     supported routes as defined under section 24102(13) of title 
     49, United States Code, on which positive train control 
     systems are not required by law or regulation: Provided 
     further, That not less than
     $50,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading shall 
     be for capital expenses related to safety improvements, 
     maintenance, and the non-Federal match for discretionary 
     Federal grant programs to enable continued passenger rail 
     operations on long-distance routes (as defined in section 
     24102 of title 49, United States Code) on which Amtrak is the 
     sole tenant of the host railroad and positive train control 
     systems are not required by law (including regulations): 
     Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
     heading shall be used by Amtrak to give notice under 
     subsection (a) or (b) of section 24706 of title 49, United 
     States Code, with respect to long-distance routes (as defined 
     in section 24102 of title 49, United States Code) on which 
     Amtrak is the sole tenant of the host railroad and positive 
     train control systems are not required by law (including 
     regulations), or otherwise initiate discontinuance of, reduce 
     the frequency of, suspend, or substantially alter the 
     schedule or route of rail service on any portion of such 
     route operated in fiscal year 2018, including implementation 
     of service permitted by section 24305(a)(3)(A) of title 49, 
     United States Code, in lieu of rail service.
       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration
       Sec. 150. None of the funds provided to the National 
     Railroad Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any 
     overtime costs in excess of $35,000 for any individual 
     employee: Provided, That the President of Amtrak may waive 
     the cap set in the previous proviso for specific employees 
     when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
     risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system: 
     Provided further, That the President of Amtrak shall report 
     to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 
     60 days of enactment of this Act, a summary of all overtime 
     payments incurred by the Corporation for 2018 and the three 
     prior calendar years: Provided further, That such summary 
     shall include the total number of employees that received 
     waivers and the total overtime payments the Corporation paid 
     to those employees receiving waivers for each month for 2018 
     and for the three prior calendar years.
       Sec. 151. It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) long-distance passenger rail routes provide much-needed 
     transportation access for 4,700,000 riders in 325 communities 
     in 40 States and are particularly important in rural areas; 
     and
       (2) long-distance passenger rail routes and services should 
     be sustained to ensure connectivity throughout the National 
     Network (as defined in section 24102 of title 49, United 
     States Code).
                     Federal Transit Administration
                        administrative expenses
       For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal 
     Transit Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of 
     title 49, United States Code, $113,165,000: Provided, That 
     none of the funds provided or limited in this Act may be used 
     to create a permanent office of transit security under this 
     heading: Provided further, That upon submission to the 
     Congress of the fiscal year 2020 President's budget, the 
     Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress the 
     annual report on New Starts, including proposed allocations 
     for fiscal year 2020.
                         transit formula grants
                (liquidation of contract authorization)
                      (limitation on obligations)
                          (highway trust fund)
       For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
     Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for 
     payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
     provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 
     5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as amended by 
     the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, section 
     20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) of the 
     Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $9,900,000,000, 
     to be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway 
     Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That funds available for the implementation or execution of 
     programs authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 
     5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as 
     amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
     section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and section 3006(b) 
     of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, shall not 
     exceed total obligations of $9,939,380,030 in fiscal year 
     2019: Provided further, That the Federal share of the cost of 
     activities carried out under 49 U.S.C. section 5312 shall not 
     exceed 80 percent, except that if there is substantial public 
     interest or benefit, the Secretary may approve a greater 
     Federal share.
                     transit infrastructure grants
       For an additional amount for buses and bus facilities 
     grants under section 5339 of title 49, United States Code, 
     state of good repair grants under section 5337 of such title, 
     high density state apportionments under section 5340(d) of 
     such title, and the bus testing facilities under sections 
     5312 and 5318 of such title, $800,000,000 to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That $400,000,000 shall be 
     available for grants as authorized under section 5339 of such 
     title, of which $209,104,000 shall be available for the buses 
     and bus facilities formula grants as authorized under section 
     5339(a) of such title, $161,446,000 shall be available for 
     the buses and bus facilities competitive grants as authorized 
     under section 5339(b) of such title, and $29,450,000 shall be 
     available for the low or no emission grants as authorized 
     under section 5339(c) of such title: Provided further, That 
     $362,000,000 shall be available for the state of good repair 
     grants as authorized under section 5337 of such title: 
     Provided further, That $30,000,000 shall be available for the 
     high density state apportionments as authorized under section 
     5340(d) of such title: Provided further, That $2,000,000 
     shall be available for the bus testing facility as authorized 
     under section 5318 of such title: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 5318(a) of such title, $6,000,000 
     shall be available for the operation and maintenance of bus 
     testing facilities by institutions of higher education 
     selected pursuant to section 5312(h) of such title: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall enter into a contract or 
     cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, each 
     institution of higher education selected pursuant to section 
     5312(h) of such title, to operate and maintain a facility to 
     conduct the testing of low or no emission vehicle new bus 
     models using the standards established pursuant to section 
     5318(e)(2) of such title: Provided further, That the term 
     ``low or no emission vehicle'' has the meaning given the term 
     in section 5312(e)(6) of such title: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall pay 80 percent of the cost of testing a 
     low or no emission vehicle new bus model at each selected 
     institution of higher education: Provided further, That the 
     entity having the vehicle tested shall pay 20 percent of the 
     cost of testing: Provided further, That a low or no emission 
     vehicle new bus model tested that receives a passing 
     aggregate test score in accordance with the standards 
     established under section 5318(e)(2) of such title, shall be 
     deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of section 
     5318(e) of such title: Provided further, That amounts made 
     available by this heading shall be derived from the general 
     fund: Provided further, That the amounts made available under 
     this heading shall not be subject to any limitation on 
     obligations for transit programs set forth in any Act.
                   technical assistance and training
       For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5314, 
     $5,000,000, of which up to $1,500,000 shall be for a 
     cooperative agreement through which the Federal Transit 
     Administration assists small-urban, rural and tribal public 
     transit recipients and planning organizations with applied 
     innovation and capacity-building: Provided, That the 
     assistance provided under this heading not duplicate the 
     activities of 49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49 U.S.C. 5312.
                       capital investment grants
       For necessary expenses to carry out fixed guideway capital 
     investment grants under section 5309 of title 49, United 
     States Code, and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America's 
     Surface Transportation Act, $2,552,687,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2022: Provided, That of the 
     amounts made available under this heading, $1,315,670,000 
     shall be available for projects authorized under section 
     5309(d) of title 49, United States Code, $543,500,000 shall 
     be available for projects authorized under section 5309(e) of 
     title 49, United States Code, $568,000,000 shall be available 
     for projects authorized under section 5309(h) of title 49, 
     United States Code, and $100,000,000 shall be available for 
     projects authorized under section 3005(b) of the Fixing 
     America's Surface Transportation Act: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary shall continue to administer the capital 
     investment grants program in accordance with the procedural 
     and substantive requirements of section 5309 of title 49, 
     United States Code, and of section 3005(b) of the Fixing 
     America's Surface Transportation Act.
      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority
       For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
     Authority as authorized under section 601 of division B of 
     Public Law 110-432, $150,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation 
     shall approve grants for capital and preventive maintenance 
     expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
     Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
     each specific project: Provided further, That prior to 
     approving such grants, the Secretary shall certify that the 
     Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is making 
     progress to improve its safety management system in response 
     to the Federal Transit Administration's 2015 safety 
     management inspection: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
     Authority has placed the highest priority on those 
     investments that will improve the safety of the system before 
     approving such grants: Provided further, That the Secretary, 
     in order to ensure safety throughout the rail system, may 
     waive the requirements of section 601(e)(1) of division B of 
     Public Law 110-432.
       administrative provisions--federal transit administration
                         (including rescission)
       Sec. 160. The limitations on obligations for the programs 
     of the Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any 
     authority under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for 
     obligation, or to any other authority previously made 
     available for obligation.
       Sec. 161. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
     funds appropriated before October 1, 2018, under any section 
     of chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, that remain 
     available for expenditure, may be
     transferred to and administered under the most recent 
     appropriation heading for any such section.
       Sec. 162. Of the unobligated amounts made available for 
     fiscal years 2005 or prior fiscal years to ``Transit Formula 
     Grants'', a total of $46,560,000 is hereby permanently 
     rescinded.
       Sec. 163. None of the funds made available under this Act 
     may be used for the implementation or furtherance of new 
     policies detailed in the ``Dear Colleague'' letter 
     distributed by the Federal Transit Administration to capital 
     investment grant program project sponsors on June 29, 2018.
             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
       The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
     authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of 
     funds and borrowing authority available to the Corporation, 
     and in accord with law, and to make such contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
     provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control 
     Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
     programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the 
     current fiscal year.
                       operations and maintenance
                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)
       For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, 
     maintenance, and capital asset renewal activities on those 
     portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway owned, operated, and 
     maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development 
     Corporation, $36,000,000, to be derived from the Harbor 
     Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662: 
     Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
     heading, not less than $16,000,000 shall be used on capital 
     asset renewal activities.
                        Maritime Administration
                       maritime security program
       For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
     merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the 
     United States, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
                        operations and training
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of operations and training 
     activities authorized by law, $149,442,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, of which $71,000,000 
     shall be for the operations of the United States Merchant 
     Marine Academy, and of which $18,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for the maintenance and repair, 
     equipment, and capital improvements at the United States 
     Merchant Marine Academy: Provided, That not later than 
     January 12, 2020, the Administrator of the Maritime 
     Administration shall transmit to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations the annual report on sexual 
     assault and sexual harassment at the United States Merchant 
     Marine Academy as required pursuant to section 3507 of Public 
     Law 110-417: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
     available under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be for the 
     Maritime Environment and Technology Assistance program 
     authorized under section 50307 of title 46, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That of the amounts made available 
     under this heading, $7,000,000, shall remain available until 
     expended for the Short Sea Transportation Program (America's 
     Marine Highways) to make grants for the purposes authorized 
     under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That available balances under this 
     heading for the Short Sea Transportation Program (America's 
     Marine Highways) from prior year recoveries shall be 
     available to carry out activities authorized under sections 
     55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, United States Code: Provided 
     further, That from funds provided under the previous two 
     provisos, the Secretary of Transportation shall make grants 
     no later than 180 days after enactment of this Act in such 
     amounts as the Secretary determines: Provided further, That 
     any unobligated balances available from previous 
     appropriations for programs and activities supporting State 
     Maritime Academies shall be transferred to and merged with 
     the appropriations for ``Maritime Administration, State 
     Maritime Academy Operations'' and shall be made available for 
     the same purposes.
                   state maritime academy operations
       For necessary expenses of operations, support and training 
     activities for State Maritime Academies, $340,200,000, of 
     which $30,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
     be for maintenance, repair, life extension, and capacity 
     improvement of National Defense Reserve Fleet training ships 
     in support of State Maritime Academies, as well as other 
     expenses related to training mariners, as determined by the 
     Secretary, of which $300,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended shall be for the National Security Multi-Mission 
     Vessel Program, including funds for construction, planning, 
     administration, and design of school ships, of which 
     $2,400,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2020, 
     for the Student Incentive Program, of which $1,800,000 shall 
     remain available until expended for training ship fuel 
     assistance, and of which $6,000,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2020, for direct payments for State 
     Maritime Academies.
                     assistance to small shipyards
       To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under 
     section 54101 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by 
     Public Law 113-281, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
                             ship disposal
       For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete 
     vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime 
     Administration, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
     loan program, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and 
     merged with the appropriations for ``Operations and 
     Training'', Maritime Administration.
           administrative provisions--maritime administration
       Sec. 170. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
     in addition to any existing authority, the Maritime 
     Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and 
     services and make necessary repairs in connection with any 
     lease, contract, or occupancy involving Government property 
     under control of the Maritime Administration: Provided, That 
     payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
     appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided further, That rental 
     payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for 
     items other than such utilities, services, or repairs shall 
     be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
                          operational expenses
       For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and 
     Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, $23,710,000: 
     Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation shall issue a 
     final rule to expand the applicability of comprehensive oil 
     spill response plans within 45 days of enactment of this Act: 
     Provided further, That the amounts appropriated under this 
     heading shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day 
     that such rule has not been issued following the expiration 
     of the period set forth in the previous proviso.
                       hazardous materials safety
       For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials 
     safety functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials 
     Safety Administration, $58,000,000, of which $7,570,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That up 
     to $800,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall 
     be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as 
     offsetting receipts: Provided further, That there may be 
     credited to this appropriation, to remain available until 
     expended, funds received from States, counties, 
     municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources 
     for expenses incurred for training, for reports publication 
     and dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in the 
     performance of hazardous materials exemptions and approvals 
     functions.
                            pipeline safety
                         (pipeline safety fund)
                    (oil spill liability trust fund)
       For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the 
     pipeline safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a 
     pipeline safety program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, 
     and to discharge the pipeline program responsibilities of the 
     Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $165,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2021, of which $23,000,000 shall be 
     derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; of which 
     $134,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund; 
     and of which $8,000,000 shall be derived from fees collected 
     under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited in the Underground 
     Natural Gas Storage Facility Safety Account for the purpose 
     of carrying out 49 U.S.C. 60141: Provided, That not less than 
     $1,058,000 of the funds provided under this heading shall be 
     for the one-call state grant program.
                     emergency preparedness grants
                     (emergency preparedness fund)
       Notwithstanding the fiscal year limitation specified in 49 
     U.S.C. 5116, not more than $28,318,000 shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2021, from amounts made available by 49 
     U.S.C. 5116(h), 5128(b), and 5128(c): Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5116(h)(4), not more than 4 percent 
     of the amounts made available from this account shall be 
     available to pay administrative costs: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 
     5128(b), or 5128(c) shall be made available for obligation by 
     individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, or 
     his or her designee.
                      Office of Inspector General
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
     General to carry out the provisions of the Inspector General 
     Act of 1978, as amended, $92,600,000: Provided, That the 
     Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
     carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General 
     Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations 
     of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
     U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to 
     regulation by the Department of Transportation: Provided 
     further, That the funds made available under this heading may 
     be used to investigate, pursuant to section 41712 of title 
     49, United States
     Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and unfair methods of 
     competition by domestic and foreign air carriers and ticket 
     agents; and (2) the compliance of domestic and foreign air 
     carriers with respect to item (1) of this proviso.
            General Provisions--Department of Transportation
       Sec. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
     appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be 
     available for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability 
     insurance for motor vehicles operating in foreign countries 
     on official department business; and uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
       (b) During the current fiscal year, applicable 
     appropriations to the Department and its operating 
     administrations shall be available for the purchase, 
     maintenance, operation, and deployment of unmanned aircraft 
     systems that advance the Department's, or its operating 
     administrations', missions.
       (c) Any unmanned aircraft system purchased or procured by 
     the Department prior to the enactment of this Act shall be 
     deemed authorized.
       Sec. 181. Appropriations contained in this Act for the 
     Department of Transportation shall be available for services 
     as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
     not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for an 
     Executive Level IV.
       Sec. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this 
     Act shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 
     U.S.C. 2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor 
     vehicles in connection with a motor vehicle record as defined 
     in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 
     for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
       (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
     withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a 
     State is in noncompliance with this provision.
       Sec. 183. None of the funds in this Act shall be available 
     for salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and 
     Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation: 
     Provided, That none of the personnel covered by this 
     provision may be assigned on temporary detail outside the 
     Department of Transportation.
       Sec. 184. Funds received by the Federal Highway 
     Administration and Federal Railroad Administration from 
     States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, 
     and private sources for expenses incurred for training may be 
     credited respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's 
     ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal Railroad 
     Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except 
     for State rail safety inspectors participating in training 
     pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
       Sec. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in this Act to the 
     Department of Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan 
     guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary grant unless the 
     Secretary of Transportation notifies the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full business 
     days before any project competitively selected to receive any 
     discretionary grant award, letter of intent, loan commitment, 
     loan guarantee commitment, line of credit commitment, or full 
     funding grant agreement is announced by the Department or its 
     modal administrations: Provided, That the Secretary gives 
     concurrent notification to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations for any ``quick release'' of funds from the 
     emergency relief program: Provided further, That no 
     notification shall involve funds that are not available for 
     obligation.
       (b) In addition to the notification required in subsection 
     (a), none of the funds made available in this Act to the 
     Department of Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan 
     guarantee, line of credit, cooperative agreement or 
     discretionary grant unless the Secretary of Transportation 
     provides the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a 
     comprehensive list of all such loans, loan guarantees, lines 
     of credit, cooperative agreement or discretionary grants that 
     will be announced not less the 3 full business days before 
     such announcement: Provided, That the requirement to provide 
     a list in this subsection does not apply to any ``quick 
     release'' of funds from the emergency relief program: 
     Provided further, That no list shall involve funds that are 
     not available for obligation.
       Sec. 186. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees 
     and other funds received by the Department of Transportation 
     from travel management centers, charge card programs, the 
     subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous sources are 
     to be credited to appropriations of the Department of 
     Transportation and allocated to elements of the Department of 
     Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
     funds shall be available until expended.
       Sec. 187. Amounts made available in this or any prior Act 
     that the Secretary determines represent improper payments by 
     the Department of Transportation to a third-party contractor 
     under a financial assistance award, which are recovered 
     pursuant to law, shall be available--
       (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
     Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments: 
     Provided, That amounts made available in this Act shall be 
     available until expended; and
       (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
     improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
     of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002: Provided, 
     That amounts in excess of that required for paragraphs (1) 
     and (2)--
       (A) shall be credited to and merged with the appropriation 
     from which the improper payments were made, and shall be 
     available for the purposes and period for which such 
     appropriations are available: Provided further, That where 
     specific project or accounting information associated with 
     the improper payment or payments is not readily available, 
     the Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which shall 
     be available for the purposes and period associated with the 
     account so credited; or
       (B) if no such appropriation remains available, shall be 
     deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided 
     further, That prior to the transfer of any such recovery to 
     an appropriations account, the Secretary shall notify the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations of the amount 
     and reasons for such transfer: Provided further, That for 
     purposes of this section, the term ``improper payments'' has 
     the same meaning as that provided in section 2(d)(2) of 
     Public Law 107-300.
       Sec. 188. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if 
     any funds provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a 
     reprogramming action that requires notice to be provided to 
     the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
     transmission of said reprogramming notice shall be provided 
     solely to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
     and said reprogramming action shall be approved or denied 
     solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide 
     notice to other congressional committees of the action of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on such 
     reprogramming but not sooner than 30 days following the date 
     on which the reprogramming action has been approved or denied 
     by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
       Sec. 189. Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
     administrations may be obligated for the Office of the 
     Secretary for the costs related to assessments or 
     reimbursable agreements only when such amounts are for the 
     costs of goods and services that are purchased to provide a 
     direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
     administrations.
       Sec. 190. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
     carry out a program that establishes uniform standards for 
     developing and supporting agency transit pass and transit 
     benefits authorized under section 7905 of title 5, United 
     States Code, including distribution of transit benefits by 
     various paper and electronic media.
       Sec. 191. The Department of Transportation may use funds 
     provided by this Act, or any other Act, to assist a contract 
     under title 49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing 
     geographic, economic, or any other hiring preference not 
     otherwise authorized by law, or to amend a rule, regulation, 
     policy or other measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal 
     Highway Administration or Federal Transit Administration 
     grant from imposing such hiring preference on a contract or 
     construction project with which the Department of 
     Transportation is assisting, only if the grant recipient 
     certifies the following:
       (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
     pool of readily available but unemployed individuals 
     possessing the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the 
     work that the contract requires resides in the jurisdiction;
       (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
     provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor 
     does not displace any of its existing employees in order to 
     satisfy such hiring preference; and
       (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
     delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does 
     not delay or displace any transportation project in the 
     applicable Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or 
     Transportation Improvement Program.
       Sec. 192. Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
     submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committees 
     on Appropriations and Transportation and Infrastructure of 
     the House of Representatives a report on efforts by the 
     Department of Transportation to engage with local 
     communities, metropolitan planning organizations, and 
     regional transportation commissions on advancing data and 
     intelligent transportation systems technologies and other 
     smart cities solutions.
       Sec. 193. The Secretary of Transportation shall consult 
     with the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works to 
     identify any existing authorities and any additional 
     authorities that may be needed to leverage funds from 
     Department of Transportation programs for purposes of inland 
     waterway project costs.
       Sec. 194. (a) Subject to subsections (c) and (d), none of 
     the funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
     Department of Transportation by this or any other Act may be 
     obligated or expended to enforce or require the enforcement 
     of section 127(a) of title 23, United States Code, with 
     respect to a segment described in paragraph (1) or (2) of 
     subsection (b) if the segment is designated as a route of the 
     Interstate System.
        (b) The segments referred to in subsection (a) are the 
     following:
       (1) The William H. Natcher Parkway (to be designated as a 
     spur of Interstate Route 65)
     from Interstate Route 65 in Bowling Green, Kentucky, to 
     United States Route 60 in Owensboro, Kentucky.
       (2) The Julian M. Carroll (Purchase) Parkway (to be 
     designated as Interstate Route 69) in the State of Kentucky 
     from the Tennessee State line to the interchange with 
     Interstate Route 24, near Calvert City, Kentucky.
       (c) Only a vehicle that could operate legally on a segment 
     described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b) before 
     the date of designation of the segment as a route of the 
     Interstate System may continue to operate on that segment, 
     subject to the condition that, except as provided in 
     subsection (d), the gross vehicle weight of such a vehicle 
     shall not exceed 120,000 pounds.
       (d) Nothing in this section prohibits a State from issuing 
     a permit for a nondivisible load or vehicle with a gross 
     vehicle weight that exceeds 120,000 pounds.
       Sec. 195. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available to the Department of Transportation may be 
     obligated or expended to implement, administer, or enforce 
     the requirements of section 31137 of title 49, United States 
     Code, or any regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to 
     such section, with respect to the use of electronic logging 
     devices by operators of commercial motor vehicles, as defined 
     in section 31132(1) of such title, transporting livestock, as 
     defined in section 602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed 
     Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.
       Sec. 196. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available to the Federal Transit Administration under 
     this title to carry out sections 5307, 5311, 5337, and 5339 
     of title 49, United States Code, may be used in awarding a 
     contract or subcontract to an entity on or after the date of 
     enactment of this Act for the procurement of rolling stock 
     for use in public transportation if the manufacturer of the 
     rolling stock is incorporated in or has manufacturing 
     facilities in the United States and receives support from the 
     government of a country that--
       (1) is identified as a nonmarket economy country (as 
     defined in section 771(18) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 
     U.S.C. 1677(18))) as of the date of enactment of this Act;
       (2) was identified by the United States Trade 
     Representative in the most recent report required by section 
     182 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2242) as a priority 
     foreign country under subsection (a)(2) of that section; and
       (3) is subject to monitoring by the Trade Representative 
     under section 306 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2416).
       (b) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent 
     with the obligations of the United States under international 
     agreements.
       (c)(1) This section shall not apply to the award of a 
     contract or subcontract made by a public transportation 
     agency with a rail rolling stock manufacturer described in 
     subsection (a) if the manufacturer produces rail rolling 
     stock for an eligible public transportation agency through a 
     contract executed prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
       (2) A rail rolling stock manufacturer described in 
     subsection (a) may not use funds provided under a contract or 
     subcontract described in paragraph (1) to expand the 
     manufacturer's production of rail rolling stock within the 
     United States to an amount of rolling stock vehicles or 
     railcars that is greater than the amount required under 
     contractual obligations of the manufacturer as of the date of 
     enactment of this Act including all options for additional 
     rolling stock.
       (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to 
     funds that are not appropriated or otherwise made available 
     to the Federal Transit Administration under this title.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of 
     Transportation Appropriations Act, 2019''.
                                TITLE II
              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
                     Management and Administration
                           executive offices
       For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, 
     which shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, 
     Deputy Secretary, Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and 
     Intergovernmental Relations, Public Affairs, Small and 
     Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the Center for Faith-
     Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,898,000: Provided, 
     That not to exceed $25,000 of the amount made available under 
     this heading shall be available to the Secretary for official 
     reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may 
     determine.
                     administrative support offices
       For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative 
     Support Offices, $556,000,000, of which $76,600,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, (and 
     of which $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2021, shall be for the financial transformation initiative); 
     $98,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the General 
     Counsel, of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be for the 
     Departmental Enforcement Center; $213,300,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of Administration; $40,200,000 shall 
     be available for the Office of the Chief Human Capital 
     Officer; $54,000,000 shall be available for the Office of 
     Field Policy and Management; $20,000,000 shall be available 
     for the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer; $3,600,000 
     shall be available for the Office of Departmental Equal 
     Employment Opportunity; $4,300,000 shall be available for the 
     Office of Business Transformation; and $46,00,000 shall be 
     available for the Office of the Chief Information Officer: 
     Provided, That funds provided under this heading may be used 
     for necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses 
     of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, not 
     otherwise provided for, including purchase of uniforms, or 
     allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
     hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as authorized 
     by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading 
     may be used for advertising and promotional activities that 
     directly support program activities funded in this title: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide the House 
     and Senate Committees on Appropriations quarterly written 
     notification regarding the status of pending congressional 
     reports: Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide 
     in electronic form all signed reports required by Congress: 
     Provided further, That not more than 10 percent of the funds 
     made available under this heading for the Office of Chief 
     Financial Officer for the financial transformation initiative 
     may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations, for approval, a plan for 
     expenditure that includes the financial and internal control 
     capabilities to be delivered and the mission benefits to be 
     realized, key milestones to be met, and the relationship 
     between the proposed use of funds made available under this 
     heading and the projected total cost and scope of the 
     initiative.
                  Program Office Salaries and Expenses
                       public and indian housing
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Public 
     and Indian Housing, $222,000,000.
                   community planning and development
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
     Community Planning and Development, $110,000,000.
                                housing
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
     Housing, $390,000,000, of which not less than $12,500,000 
     shall be for the Office of Recapitalization.
                    policy development and research
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Policy 
     Development and Research, $26,000,000.
                   fair housing and equal opportunity
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Fair 
     Housing and Equal Opportunity, $71,500,000.
            office of lead hazard control and healthy homes
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Lead 
     Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, $7,800,000.
                          working capital fund
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing 
     and Urban Development (referred to in this paragraph as the 
     ``Fund''), pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 
     3535(f)), amounts transferred, including reimbursements 
     pursuant to section 7(f), to the Fund under this heading 
     shall be available for Federal shared services used by 
     offices and agencies of the Department, and for such portion 
     of any office or agency's printing, records management, space 
     renovation, furniture, or supply services as the Secretary 
     determines shall be derived from centralized sources made 
     available by the Department to all offices and agencies and 
     funded through the Fund: Provided, That of the amounts made 
     available in this title for salaries and expenses under the 
     headings ``Executive Offices'', ``Administrative Support 
     Offices'', ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', and 
     ``Government National Mortgage Association'', the Secretary 
     shall transfer to the Fund such amounts, to remain available 
     until expended, as are necessary to fund services, specified 
     in the matter preceding the first proviso, for which the 
     appropriation would otherwise have been available, and may 
     transfer not to exceed an additional $5,000,000, in 
     aggregate, from all such appropriations, to be merged with 
     the Fund and to remain available until expended for any 
     purpose under this heading: Provided further, That amounts in 
     the Fund shall be the only amounts available to each office 
     or agency of the Department for the services, or portion of 
     services, specified in the matter preceding the first 
     proviso: Provided further, That with respect to the Fund, the 
     authorities and conditions under this heading shall 
     supplement the authorities and conditions provided under 
     section 7(f).
                       Public and Indian Housing
                     tenant-based rental assistance
       For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-
     based rental assistance authorized under the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) 
     (``the Act'' herein), not otherwise provided for, 
     $18,780,987,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
     available on October 1, 2018 (in addition to the 
     $4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading 
     that shall be available on October 1, 2018), and 
     $4,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
     available on October 1, 2019: Provided, That the amounts made 
     available under this heading are provided as follows:
       (1) $20,520,000,000 shall be available for renewals of 
     expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions 
     contracts (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any 
     provision of law authorizing such assistance under section 
     8(t) of the Act) and including renewal of other special 
     purpose incremental vouchers: Provided, That notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, from amounts provided under this 
     paragraph and any carryover, the Secretary for the calendar 
     year 2019 funding cycle shall provide renewal funding for 
     each public housing agency based on validated voucher 
     management system (VMS) leasing and cost data for the prior 
     calendar year and by applying an inflation factor as 
     established by the Secretary, by notice published in the 
     Federal Register, and by making any necessary adjustments for 
     the costs associated with the first-time renewal of vouchers 
     under this paragraph including tenant protection and Choice 
     Neighborhoods vouchers: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds provided under this paragraph may be used to fund a 
     total number of unit months under lease which exceeds a 
     public housing agency's authorized level of units under 
     contract, except for public housing agencies participating in 
     the MTW demonstration, which are instead governed by the 
     terms and conditions of their MTW agreements: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall, to the extent necessary to 
     stay within the amount specified under this paragraph (except 
     as otherwise modified under this paragraph), prorate each 
     public housing agency's allocation otherwise established 
     pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further, That except as 
     provided in the following provisos, the entire amount 
     specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
     under this paragraph) shall be obligated to the public 
     housing agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method 
     described above, and the Secretary shall notify public 
     housing agencies of their annual budget by the latter of 60 
     days after enactment of this Act or March 1, 2019: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may extend the notification 
     period with the prior written approval of the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
     public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
     demonstration shall be funded pursuant to their MTW 
     agreements and shall be subject to the same pro rata 
     adjustments under the previous provisos: Provided further, 
     That the Secretary may offset public housing agencies' 
     calendar year 2019 allocations based on the excess amounts of 
     public housing agencies' net restricted assets accounts, 
     including HUD-held programmatic reserves (in accordance with 
     VMS data in calendar year 2018 that is verifiable and 
     complete), as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, 
     That public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
     demonstration shall also be subject to the offset, as 
     determined by the Secretary, excluding amounts subject to the 
     single fund budget authority provisions of their MTW 
     agreements, from the agencies' calendar year 2019 MTW funding 
     allocation: Provided further, That the Secretary shall use 
     any offset referred to in the previous two provisos 
     throughout the calendar year to prevent the termination of 
     rental assistance for families as the result of insufficient 
     funding, as determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or 
     reduce the proration of renewal funding allocations: Provided 
     further, That up to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) 
     for adjustments in the allocations for public housing 
     agencies, after application for an adjustment by a public 
     housing agency that experienced a significant increase, as 
     determined by the Secretary, in renewal costs of vouchers 
     resulting from unforeseen circumstances or from portability 
     under section 8(r) of the Act; (2) for vouchers that were not 
     in use during the previous 12-month period in order to be 
     available to meet a commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) 
     of the Act; (3) for adjustments for costs associated with 
     HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; 
     and (4) for public housing agencies that despite taking 
     reasonable cost savings measures, as determined by the 
     Secretary, would otherwise be required to terminate rental 
     assistance for families as a result of insufficient funding: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall allocate amounts 
     under the previous proviso based on need, as determined by 
     the Secretary;
       (2) $85,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
     for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
     demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
     conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
     8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
     Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
     combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
     request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, 
     enhanced vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such 
     assistance under section 8(t) of the Act, Choice Neighborhood 
     vouchers, mandatory and voluntary conversions, and tenant 
     protection assistance including replacement and relocation 
     assistance or for project-based assistance to prevent the 
     displacement of unassisted elderly tenants currently residing 
     in section 202 properties financed between 1959 and 1974 that 
     are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-569, as amended, or 
     under the authority as provided under this Act: Provided, 
     That when a public housing development is submitted for 
     demolition or disposition under section 18 of the Act, the 
     Secretary may provide section 8 rental assistance when the 
     units pose an imminent health and safety risk to residents: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary may only provide 
     replacement vouchers for units that were occupied within the 
     previous 24 months that cease to be available as assisted 
     housing, subject only to the availability of funds: Provided 
     further, That of the amounts made available under this 
     paragraph, $5,000,000 may be available to provide tenant 
     protection assistance, not otherwise provided under this 
     paragraph, to residents residing in low vacancy areas and who 
     may have to pay rents greater than 30 percent of household 
     income, as the result of: (A) the maturity of a HUD-insured, 
     HUD-held or section 202 loan that requires the permission of 
     the Secretary prior to loan prepayment; (B) the expiration of 
     a rental assistance contract for which the tenants are not 
     eligible for enhanced voucher or tenant protection assistance 
     under existing law; or (C) the expiration of affordability 
     restrictions accompanying a mortgage or preservation program 
     administered by the Secretary: Provided further, That such 
     tenant protection assistance made available under the 
     previous proviso may be provided under the authority of 
     section 8(t) or section 8(o)(13) of the United States Housing 
     Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)): Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall issue guidance to implement the previous 
     provisos, including, but not limited to, requirements for 
     defining eligible at-risk households within 60 days of the 
     enactment of this Act: Provided further, That any tenant 
     protection voucher made available from amounts under this 
     paragraph shall not be reissued by any public housing agency, 
     except the replacement vouchers as defined by the Secretary 
     by notice, when the initial family that received any such 
     voucher no longer receives such voucher, and the authority 
     for any public housing agency to issue any such voucher shall 
     cease to exist: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
     provide section 8 rental assistance from amounts made 
     available under this paragraph for units assisted under a 
     project-based subsidy contract funded under the ``Project-
     Based Rental Assistance'' heading under this title where the 
     owner has received a Notice of Default and the units pose an 
     imminent health and safety risk to residents: Provided 
     further, That to the extent that the Secretary determines 
     that such units are not feasible for continued rental 
     assistance payments or transfer of the subsidy contract 
     associated with such units to another project or projects and 
     owner or owners, any remaining amounts associated with such 
     units under such contract shall be recaptured and used to 
     reimburse amounts used under this paragraph for rental 
     assistance under the preceding proviso;
       (3) $1,956,987,000 shall be for administrative and other 
     expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
     section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
     to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to 
     allocate to public housing agencies that need additional 
     funds to administer their section 8 programs, including fees 
     associated with section 8 tenant protection rental 
     assistance, the administration of disaster related vouchers, 
     HUD-VASH vouchers, and other special purpose incremental 
     vouchers: Provided, That no less than $1,926,987,000 of the 
     amount provided in this paragraph shall be allocated to 
     public housing agencies for the calendar year 2019 funding 
     cycle based on section 8(q) of the Act (and related 
     Appropriation Act provisions) as in effect immediately before 
     the enactment of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility 
     Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276): Provided further, That if 
     the amounts made available under this paragraph are 
     insufficient to pay the amounts determined under the previous 
     proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts allocated to 
     agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all agencies 
     receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the extent 
     necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined under 
     the previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, including 
     recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds appropriated 
     to the Department of Housing and Urban Development under this 
     heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special purpose 
     vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts 
     were appropriated: Provided further, That all public housing 
     agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall be 
     funded pursuant to their MTW agreements, and shall be subject 
     to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the previous 
     proviso: Provided further, That amounts provided under this 
     paragraph shall be only for activities related to the 
     provision of tenant-based rental assistance authorized under 
     section 8, including related development activities;
       (4) $154,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-based assistance 
     contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
     Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including necessary 
     administrative expenses: Provided, That administrative and 
     other expenses of public housing agencies in administering 
     the special purpose vouchers in this paragraph shall be 
     funded under the same terms and be subject to the same pro 
     rata reduction as the percent decrease for administrative and 
     other expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph (3) 
     of this heading: Provided further, That any amounts provided 
     under this paragraph in this Act or prior Acts, remaining 
     available after funding renewals and administrative expenses 
     under this paragraph, shall be available for incremental 
     tenant-based assistance contracts under such section 811, 
     including necessary administrative expenses;
       (5) $5,000,000 shall be for rental assistance and 
     associated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-VASH to serve 
     Native American veterans that are homeless or at-risk of 
     homelessness living on or near a reservation or other Indian 
     areas: Provided, That such amount shall be made available for 
     renewal grants to recipients that received assistance under 
     prior Acts under the Tribal HUD-VASH program: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to specify 
     criteria for renewal grants, including data on the 
     utilization of assistance reported by grant recipients: 
     Provided further, That such assistance shall be administered 
     in accordance with program requirements under the Native 
     American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 
     1996 and modeled after the HUD-VASH program: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to waive, or 
     specify alternative requirements for any provision of any 
     statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in 
     connection with the use of funds made available under this 
     paragraph (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
     nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), 
     upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or 
     alternative requirements are necessary for the effective 
     delivery and administration of such assistance: Provided 
     further, That grant recipients shall report to the Secretary 
     on utilization of such rental assistance and other program 
     data, as prescribed by the Secretary: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary may reallocate, as determined by the Secretary, 
     amounts returned or recaptured from awards under prior acts;
       (6) $40,000,000 for incremental rental voucher assistance 
     for use through a supported housing program administered in 
     conjunction with the Department of Veterans Affairs as 
     authorized under section 8(o)(19) of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937: Provided, That the Secretary of Housing 
     and Urban Development shall make such funding available, 
     notwithstanding section 203 (competition provision) of this 
     title, to public housing agencies that partner with eligible 
     VA Medical Centers or other entities as designated by the 
     Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, based on 
     geographical need for such assistance as identified by the 
     Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, public 
     housing agency administrative performance, and other factors 
     as specified by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development in consultation with the Secretary of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, or 
     specify alternative requirements for (in consultation with 
     the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs), any 
     provision of any statute or regulation that the Secretary of 
     Housing and Urban Development administers in connection with 
     the use of funds made available under this paragraph (except 
     for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, 
     labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the 
     Secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements 
     are necessary for the effective delivery and administration 
     of such voucher assistance: Provided further, That assistance 
     made available under this paragraph shall continue to remain 
     available for homeless veterans upon turn-over;
       (7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for new incremental 
     voucher assistance through the family unification program as 
     authorized by section 8(x) of the Act: Provided, That the 
     assistance made available under this paragraph shall continue 
     to remain available for family unification upon turnover: 
     Provided further, That for any public housing agency 
     administering voucher assistance appropriated in a prior Act 
     under the family unification program that determines that it 
     no longer has an identified need for such assistance upon 
     turnover, such agency shall notify the Secretary, and the 
     Secretary shall recapture such assistance from the agency and 
     reallocate it to any other public housing agency or agencies 
     based on need for voucher assistance in connection with such 
     program; and
       (8) the Secretary shall separately track all special 
     purpose vouchers funded under this heading.
                        housing certificate fund
                        (including rescissions)
       Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
     remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development under this heading, the heading 
     ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'' and the heading 
     ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', for fiscal year 2019 and 
     prior years may be used for renewal of or amendments to 
     section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-based 
     contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for 
     which such funds were appropriated: Provided, That any 
     obligated balances of contract authority from fiscal year 
     1974 and prior that have been terminated shall be rescinded: 
     Provided further, That amounts heretofore recaptured, or 
     recaptured during the current fiscal year, from section 8 
     project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 1975 
     through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount 
     of additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount 
     rescinded is hereby appropriated, to remain available until 
     expended, for the purposes set forth under this heading, in 
     addition to amounts otherwise available.
                      public housing capital fund
       For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out 
     capital and management activities for public housing 
     agencies, as authorized under section 9 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the ``Act'') 
     $2,775,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: 
     Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
     regulation, during fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of Housing 
     and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department 
     official other than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant 
     Secretary for Public and Indian Housing any authority under 
     paragraph (2) of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the 
     time periods under such section: Provided further, That for 
     purposes of such section 9(j), the term ``obligate'' means, 
     with respect to amounts, that the amounts are subject to a 
     binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately or 
     in the future: Provided further, That up to $14,000,000 shall 
     be to support ongoing public housing financial and physical 
     assessment activities: Provided further, That up to 
     $1,000,000 shall be to support the costs of administrative 
     and judicial receiverships: Provided further, That of the 
     total amount provided under this heading, not to exceed 
     $25,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make 
     grants, notwithstanding section 203 of this Act, to public 
     housing agencies for emergency capital needs including safety 
     and security measures necessary to address crime and drug-
     related activity as well as needs resulting from unforeseen 
     or unpreventable emergencies and natural disasters excluding 
     Presidentially declared emergencies and natural disasters 
     under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2019: 
     Provided further, That of the amount made available under the 
     previous proviso, not less than $5,000,000 shall be for 
     safety and security measures: Provided further, That in 
     addition to the amount in the previous proviso for such 
     safety and security measures, any amounts that remain 
     available, after all applications received on or before 
     September 30, 2020, for emergency capital needs have been 
     processed, shall be allocated to public housing agencies for 
     such safety and security measures: Provided further, That of 
     the total amount provided under this heading, up to 
     $35,000,000 shall be for supportive services, service 
     coordinators and congregate services as authorized by section 
     34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-6) and the Native American 
     Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
     U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): Provided further, That of the total 
     amount made available under this heading, $15,000,000 shall 
     be for a Jobs-Plus initiative modeled after the Jobs-Plus 
     demonstration: Provided further, That funding provided under 
     the previous proviso shall be available for competitive 
     grants to partnerships between public housing authorities, 
     local workforce investment boards established under section 
     107 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 
     (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other agencies and organizations that 
     provide support to help public housing residents obtain 
     employment and increase earnings: Provided further, That 
     applicants must demonstrate the ability to provide services 
     to residents, partner with workforce investment boards, and 
     leverage service dollars: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary may allow public housing agencies to request 
     exemptions from rent and income limitation requirements under 
     sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437a and 1437d), as necessary to implement the Jobs-
     Plus program, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
     may approve upon a finding by the Secretary that any such 
     waivers or alternative requirements are necessary for the 
     effective implementation of the Jobs-Plus initiative as a 
     voluntary program for residents: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal Register any 
     waivers or alternative requirements pursuant to the preceding 
     proviso no later than 10 days before the effective date of 
     such notice: Provided further, That for funds provided under 
     this heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the Act 
     shall be 25 percent: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
     waive the limitation in the previous proviso to allow public 
     housing agencies to fund activities authorized under section 
     9(e)(1)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall notify public housing agencies requesting waivers under 
     the previous proviso if the request is approved or denied 
     within 14 days of submitting the request: Provided further, 
     That from the funds made available under this heading, the 
     Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal year 2019 to 
     public housing agencies that are designated high performers: 
     Provided further, That the Department shall notify public 
     housing agencies of their formula allocation within 60 days 
     of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That of the total 
     amount provided under this heading, $25,000,000 shall be 
     available for competitive grants to public housing agencies 
     to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards in public 
     housing by carrying out the activities of risk assessments, 
     abatement, and interim controls (as those terms are defined 
     in section 1004 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard 
     Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b)): Provided further, 
     That for purposes of environmental review, a grant under the 
     previous proviso shall be considered funds for projects or 
     activities under title I of the United States Housing Act of 
     1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for purposes of section 26 of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437x) and shall be subject to the 
     regulations implementing such section.
  
                     public housing operating fund
       For 2019 payments to public housing agencies for the 
     operation and management of public housing, as authorized by 
     section 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,756,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
                    choice neighborhoods initiative
       For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods 
     Initiative (subject to section 24 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise 
     specified under this heading), for transformation, 
     rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both public 
     and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
     poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income 
     neighborhoods with appropriate services, schools, public 
     assets, transportation and access to jobs, $100,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That 
     grant funds may be used for resident and community services, 
     community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
     community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed 
     properties to affordable housing: Provided further, That the 
     use of funds made available under this heading shall not be 
     deemed to be public housing notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) 
     of such Act: Provided further, That grantees shall commit to 
     an additional period of affordability determined by the 
     Secretary of not fewer than 20 years: Provided further, That 
     grantees shall provide a match in State, local, other Federal 
     or private funds: Provided further, That grantees may include 
     local governments, tribal entities, public housing 
     authorities, and nonprofits: Provided further, That for-
     profit developers may apply jointly with a public entity: 
     Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, 
     a grantee shall be treated as a public housing agency under 
     section 26 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this heading shall be subject 
     to the regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such 
     section: Provided further, That of the amount provided, not 
     less than $50,000,000 shall be awarded to public housing 
     agencies: Provided further, That such grantees shall create 
     partnerships with other local organizations including 
     assisted housing owners, service agencies, and resident 
     organizations: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     consult with the Secretaries of Education, Labor, 
     Transportation, Health and Human Services, Agriculture, and 
     Commerce, the Attorney General, and the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to coordinate and leverage 
     other appropriate Federal resources: Provided further, That 
     no more than $5,000,000 of funds made available under this 
     heading may be provided as grants to undertake comprehensive 
     local planning with input from residents and the community: 
     Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
     recaptures, remaining from funds appropriated under the 
     heading ``Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public 
     Housing (HOPE VI)'' in fiscal year 2011 and prior fiscal 
     years may be used for purposes under this heading, 
     notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were 
     appropriated: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     issue the Notice of Funding Availability for funds made 
     available under this heading no later than 60 days after 
     enactment of this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall make grant awards no later than one year from the date 
     of enactment of this Act in such amounts that the Secretary 
     determines: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
     24(o) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
     1437v(o)), the Secretary may, until September 30, 2019, 
     obligate any available unobligated balances made available 
     under this heading in this, or any prior Act.
                        family self-sufficiency
       For the Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family 
     self-sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United 
     States Housing Act of 1937, to promote the development of 
     local strategies to coordinate the use of assistance under 
     sections 8(o) and 9 of such Act with public and private 
     resources, and enable eligible families to achieve economic 
     independence and self-sufficiency, $80,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That the 
     Secretary may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify 
     alternative requirements under subsections b(3), b(4), b(5), 
     or c(1) of section 23 of such Act in order to facilitate the 
     operation of a unified self-sufficiency program for 
     individuals receiving assistance under different provisions 
     of the Act, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, 
     That owners of a privately owned multifamily property with a 
     section 8 contract may voluntarily make a Family Self-
     Sufficiency program available to the assisted tenants of such 
     property in accordance with procedures established by the 
     Secretary: Provided further, That such procedures established 
     pursuant to the previous proviso shall permit participating 
     tenants to accrue escrow funds in accordance with section 
     23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use funding from residual 
     receipt accounts to hire coordinators for their own Family 
     Self-Sufficiency program.
                  native american housing block grants
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as 
     authorized under title I of the Native American Housing 
     Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 
     U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $655,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2023: Provided, That, notwithstanding NAHASDA, 
     to determine the amount of the allocation under title I of 
     such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary shall apply the 
     formula under section 302 of such Act with the need component 
     based on single-race census data and with the need component 
     based on multi-race census data, and the amount of the 
     allocation for each Indian tribe shall be the greater of the 
     two resulting allocation amounts: Provided further, That of 
     the amounts made available under this heading, $7,000,000 
     shall be for providing training and technical assistance to 
     Indian housing authorities and tribally designated housing 
     entities, to support the inspection of Indian housing units, 
     contract expertise, and for training and technical assistance 
     related to funding provided under this heading and other 
     headings under this Act for the needs of Native American 
     families and Indian country: Provided further, That amounts 
     made available under the previous proviso may be used, 
     contracted, or competed as determined by the Secretary: 
     Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
     heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of 
     guaranteed notes and other obligations, as authorized by 
     title VI of NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs, 
     including the costs of modifying such notes and other 
     obligations, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided 
     further, That these funds are available to subsidize the 
     total principal amount of any notes and other obligations, 
     any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
     $17,761,989: Provided further, That the Department will 
     notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of 
     the date of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That for 
     an additional amount for the Native American Housing Block 
     Grants program, as authorized under title I of NAHASDA, 
     $100,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2023: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary shall obligate this 
     additional amount for competitive grants to eligible 
     recipients authorized under NAHASDA that apply for funds: 
     Provided further, That in awarding this additional amount, 
     the Secretary shall consider need and administrative 
     capacity, and shall give priority to projects that will spur 
     construction and rehabilitation: Provided further, That up to 
     1 percent of this additional amount may be transferred, in 
     aggregate, to ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses--Public 
     and Indian Housing'' for necessary costs of administering and 
     overseeing the obligation and expenditure of this additional 
     amount: Provided further, That any funds transferred pursuant 
     to the previous proviso shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2024.
           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account
       For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 
     184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 
     U.S.C. 1715z-13a), $1,440,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That such costs, including the costs of 
     modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
     any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to $553,846,154, to 
     remain available until expended: Provided further, That up to 
     $750,000 of this amount may be for administrative contract 
     expenses including management processes and systems to carry 
     out the loan guarantee program.
                  native hawaiian housing block grant
       For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program, as 
     authorized under title VIII of the Native American Housing 
     Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4111 
     et seq.), $2,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2023: Provided, That notwithstanding section 812(b) of such 
     Act, the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands may not invest 
     grant amounts provided under this heading in investment 
     securities and other obligations: Provided further, That 
     amounts made available under this heading in this and prior 
     fiscal years may be used to provide rental assistance to 
     eligible Native Hawaiian families both on and off the 
     Hawaiian Home Lands, notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law.
                   Community Planning and Development
              housing opportunities for persons with aids
       For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with 
     AIDS program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $375,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, except that amounts 
     allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(5) of such Act shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
     supportive housing that initially were funded under section 
     854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made available under this 
     heading in fiscal year 2010 and prior fiscal years that meet 
     all program requirements before awarding funds for new 
     contracts under such section: Provided further, That the 
     Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
     within 60 days of enactment of this Act.
                       community development fund
       For assistance to units of State and local government, and 
     to other entities, for economic and community development 
     activities, and for other purposes, $3,365,000,000, to
     remain available until September 30, 2021, unless otherwise 
     specified: Provided, That of the total amount provided, 
     $3,300,000,000 is for carrying out the community development 
     block grant program under title I of the Housing and 
     Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (``the Act'' 
     herein) (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.): Provided further, That 
     unless explicitly provided for under this heading, not to 
     exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds appropriated 
     under this heading shall be expended for planning and 
     management development and administration: Provided further, 
     That a metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local 
     government, Indian tribe, or insular area that directly or 
     indirectly receives funds under this heading may not sell, 
     trade, or otherwise transfer all or any portion of such funds 
     to another such entity in exchange for any other funds, 
     credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such 
     funds for activities eligible under title I of the Act: 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of 
     the Act, no funds provided under this heading may be provided 
     to a for-profit entity for an economic development project 
     under section 105(a)(17) unless such project has been 
     evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines required 
     under subsection (e)(2): Provided further, That the 
     Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
     within 60 days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, 
     That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
     $65,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes 
     notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act, of which, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 
     203 of this Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for 
     emergencies that constitute imminent threats to health and 
     safety.
         community development loan guarantees program account
       Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974, during fiscal year 2019, commitments to guarantee loans 
     under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development 
     Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308), any part of which is 
     guaranteed, shall not exceed a total principal amount of 
     $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate limitation on 
     outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of such 
     section 108: Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees 
     from borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such 
     section 108, to result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for 
     guaranteeing such loans, and any such fees shall be collected 
     in accordance with section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget 
     Act of 1974.
                  home investment partnerships program
       For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized 
     under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
     Housing Act, as amended, $1,362,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2022: Provided, That notwithstanding the 
     amount made available under this heading, the threshold 
     reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 217(b)(4) of 
     such Act shall not apply to allocations of such amount: 
     Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees 
     of their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of 
     this Act.
        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program
       For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity 
     Program, as authorized under section 11 of the Housing 
     Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended, 
     $54,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
     Provided, That of the total amount provided under this 
     heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-Help 
     Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under section 
     11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, 
     as amended: Provided further, That of the total amount 
     provided under this heading, $35,000,000 shall be made 
     available for the second, third, and fourth capacity building 
     activities authorized under section 4(a) of the HUD 
     Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not 
     less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for rural 
     capacity building activities: Provided further, That of the 
     total amount provided under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be 
     made available for capacity building by national rural 
     housing organizations with experience assessing national 
     rural conditions and providing financing, training, technical 
     assistance, information, and research to local nonprofits, 
     local governments, and Indian Tribes serving high need rural 
     communities: Provided further, That of the total amount 
     provided under this heading, $4,000,000, shall be made 
     available for a program to rehabilitate and modify the homes 
     of disabled or low-income veterans, as authorized under 
     section 1079 of Public Law 113-291: Provided further, That 
     funds provided under the previous proviso shall be awarded 
     within 180 days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, 
     That funds provided for such program in fiscal years 2016, 
     2017, and 2018 shall be awarded within 60 days of enactment 
     of this Act.
                       homeless assistance grants
       For the Emergency Solutions Grants program as authorized 
     under subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
     Assistance Act, as amended; the Continuum of Care program as 
     authorized under subtitle C of title IV of such Act; and the 
     Rural Housing Stability Assistance program as authorized 
     under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, $2,612,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That any 
     rental assistance amounts that are recaptured under such 
     Continuum of Care program shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided further, That not less than $270,000,000 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for such Emergency Solutions Grants program: 
     Provided further, That not less than $2,205,000,000 of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
     such Continuum of Care and Rural Housing Stability Assistance 
     programs: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
     available under this heading, up to $50,000,000 shall be made 
     available for grants for rapid re-housing projects and 
     supportive service projects providing coordinated entry, and 
     for eligible activities the Secretary determines to be 
     critical in order to assist survivors of domestic violence, 
     dating violence, and stalking: Provided further, That such 
     projects shall be eligible for renewal under the continuum of 
     care program subject to the same terms and conditions as 
     other renewal applicants: Provided further, That up to 
     $7,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
     be available for the national homeless data analysis project: 
     Provided further, That all funds awarded for supportive 
     services under the Continuum of Care program and the Rural 
     Housing Stability Assistance program shall be matched by not 
     less than 25 percent in cash or in kind by each grantee: 
     Provided further, That for all match requirements applicable 
     to funds made available under this heading for this fiscal 
     year and prior fiscal years, a grantee may use (or could have 
     used) as a source of match funds other funds administered by 
     the Secretary and other Federal agencies unless there is (or 
     was) a specific statutory prohibition on any such use of any 
     such funds: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
     collect system performance measures for each continuum of 
     care, and that relative to fiscal year 2015, under the 
     Continuum of Care competition with respect to funds made 
     available under this heading, the Secretary shall base an 
     increasing share of the score on performance criteria: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
     heading shall be available to provide funding for new 
     projects, except for projects created through reallocation, 
     unless the Secretary determines that the continuum of care 
     has demonstrated that projects are evaluated and ranked based 
     on the degree to which they improve the continuum of care's 
     system performance: Provided further, That the Secretary 
     shall prioritize funding under the Continuum of Care program 
     to continuums of care that have demonstrated a capacity to 
     reallocate funding from lower performing projects to higher 
     performing projects: Provided further, That all awards of 
     assistance under this heading shall be required to coordinate 
     and integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, 
     social services, and employment programs for which homeless 
     populations may be eligible: Provided further, That any 
     unobligated amounts remaining from funds appropriated under 
     this heading in fiscal year 2012 and prior years for project-
     based rental assistance for rehabilitation projects with 10-
     year grant terms may be used for purposes under this heading, 
     notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds were 
     appropriated: Provided further, That all balances for Shelter 
     Plus Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus 
     Care Renewal account and transferred to this account shall be 
     available, if recaptured, for Continuum of Care renewals in 
     fiscal year 2019: Provided further, That the Department shall 
     notify grantees of their formula allocation from amounts 
     allocated (which may represent initial or final amounts 
     allocated) for the Emergency Solutions Grant program within 
     60 days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That up 
     to $80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading 
     shall be to implement projects to demonstrate how a 
     comprehensive approach to serving homeless youth, age 24 and 
     under, in up to 25 communities, including at least five 
     communities with substantial rural populations, can 
     dramatically reduce youth homelessness: Provided further, 
     That of the amount made available under the previous proviso, 
     up to $5,000,000 shall be available to provide technical 
     assistance on youth homelessness, and collection, analysis, 
     and reporting of data and performance measures under the 
     comprehensive approaches to serve homeless youth, in addition 
     to and in coordination with other technical assistance funds 
     provided under this title: Provided further, That such 
     projects shall be eligible for renewal under the continuum of 
     care program subject to the same terms and conditions as 
     other renewal applicants: Provided further, That youth aged 
     24 and under seeking assistance under this heading shall not 
     be required to provide third party documentation to establish 
     their eligibility under 42 U.S.C. 11302(a) or (b) to receive 
     services: Provided further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24 
     and under or families headed by youth aged 24 and under who 
     are living in unsafe situations may be served by youth-
     serving providers funded under this heading.
                            Housing Programs
                    project-based rental assistance
       For activities and assistance for the provision of project-
     based subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act 
     of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise 
     provided for, $11,347,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be available on October 1, 2018 (in addition 
     to the $400,000,000 previously appropriated under this 
     heading that became available October
     1, 2018), and $400,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, shall be available on October 1, 2019: Provided, 
     That the amounts made available under this heading shall be 
     available for expiring or terminating section 8 project-based 
     subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
     rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 8 
     project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
     rehabilitation contracts), for contracts entered into 
     pursuant to section 441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of section 8 
     contracts for units in projects that are subject to approved 
     plans of action under the Emergency Low Income Housing 
     Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing 
     Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, and for 
     administrative and other expenses associated with project-
     based activities and assistance funded under this paragraph: 
     Provided further, That of the total amounts provided under 
     this heading, not to exceed $245,000,000 shall be available 
     for performance-based contract administrators for section 8 
     project-based assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f): 
     Provided further, That the Secretary may also use such 
     amounts in the previous proviso for performance-based 
     contract administrators for the administration of: interest 
     reduction payments pursuant to section 236(a) of the National 
     Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent supplement payments 
     pursuant to section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development 
     Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2) rental 
     assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); project rental 
     assistance contracts for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) 
     of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project rental 
     assistance contracts for supportive housing for persons with 
     disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
     National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); 
     project assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of 
     the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667); 
     and loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 
     (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667): Provided further, That 
     amounts recaptured under this heading, the heading ``Annual 
     Contributions for Assisted Housing'', or the heading 
     ``Housing Certificate Fund'', may be used for renewals of or 
     amendments to section 8 project-based contracts or for 
     performance-based contract administrators, notwithstanding 
     the purposes for which such amounts were appropriated: 
     Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, upon the request of the Secretary, project funds that 
     are held in residual receipts accounts for any project 
     subject to a section 8 project-based Housing Assistance 
     Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a Housing Finance 
     Agency to require that surplus project funds be deposited in 
     an interest-bearing residual receipts account and that are in 
     excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall 
     be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, 
     to be available until expended: Provided further, That 
     amounts deposited pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
     available in addition to the amount otherwise provided by 
     this heading for uses authorized under this heading.
                        housing for the elderly
       For capital advances, including amendments to capital 
     advance contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized 
     by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, for 
     project rental assistance for the elderly under section 
     202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments to contracts for 
     such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for such 
     assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior preservation 
     rental assistance contracts, including renewals, as 
     authorized by section 811(e) of the American Housing and 
     Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended, and for 
     supportive services associated with the housing, 
     $678,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022: 
     Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, up 
     to $90,000,000 shall be for service coordinators and the 
     continuation of existing congregate service grants for 
     residents of assisted housing projects: Provided further, 
     That amounts under this heading shall be available for Real 
     Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related 
     activities associated with section 202 projects: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary may waive the provisions of 
     section 202 governing the terms and conditions of project 
     rental assistance, except that the initial contract term for 
     such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration: 
     Provided further, That upon request of the Secretary, project 
     funds which are held in residual receipts accounts for any 
     project subject to a section 202 project rental assistance 
     contract and, upon termination of such contract, are in 
     excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary shall 
     be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided 
     further, That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to 
     the previous proviso shall be available, in addition to the 
     amounts otherwise provided by this heading, for amendments 
     and renewals: Provided further, That unobligated balances, 
     including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
     transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for amendments and renewals notwithstanding the 
     purposes for which such funds originally were appropriated: 
     Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
     this heading, $10,000,000, shall be for a program to be 
     established by the Secretary to make grants to experienced 
     non-profit organizations, States, local governments, or 
     public housing agencies for safety and functional home 
     modification repairs to meet the needs of low-income elderly 
     persons to enable them to remain in their primary residence: 
     Provided further, That of the total amount made available 
     under the previous proviso, no less than $5,000,000 shall be 
     available to meet such needs in communities with substantial 
     rural populations.
                 housing for persons with disabilities
       For amendments to capital advance contracts, for supportive 
     housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by 
     section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
     Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), as amended, for project rental 
     assistance for supportive housing for persons with 
     disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act, for project 
     assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the 
     Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667), 
     including amendments to contracts for such assistance and 
     renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance for up to a 
     1-year term, for project rental assistance to State housing 
     finance agencies and other appropriate entities as authorized 
     under section 811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
     Housing Act, and for supportive services associated with the 
     housing for persons with disabilities as authorized by 
     section 811(b)(1) of such Act, $154,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2022: Provided, That amounts 
     made available under this heading shall be available for Real 
     Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related 
     activities associated with section 811 projects: Provided 
     further, That, upon the request of the Secretary, project 
     funds which are held in residual receipts accounts for any 
     project subject to a section 811 project rental assistance 
     contract and, upon termination of such contract, are in 
     excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary shall 
     be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2022: Provided 
     further, That amounts deposited in this account pursuant to 
     the previous proviso shall be available in addition to the 
     amounts otherwise provided by this heading for amendments and 
     renewals: Provided further, That unobligated balances, 
     including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
     transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
     used for amendments and renewals notwithstanding the purposes 
     for which such funds originally were appropriated.
                     housing counseling assistance
       For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding 
     loans, as authorized under section 106 of the Housing and 
     Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended, $45,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, including up to 
     $4,500,000 for administrative contract services: Provided, 
     That grants made available from amounts provided under this 
     heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That funds shall be used for providing 
     counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, both current 
     and prospective, with respect to property maintenance, 
     financial management or literacy, and such other matters as 
     may be appropriate to assist them in improving their housing 
     conditions, meeting their financial needs, and fulfilling the 
     responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership; for program 
     administration; and for housing counselor training: Provided 
     further, That for purposes of providing such grants from 
     amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter 
     into multiyear agreements, as appropriate, subject to the 
     availability of annual appropriations.
                       rental housing assistance
       For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the 
     Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) 
     and section 236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
     1715z-1) in State-aided, noninsured rental housing projects, 
     $5,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That such amount, together with unobligated balances from 
     recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
     from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
     unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
     remaining from funds appropriated under this heading after 
     fiscal year 2005, shall also be available for extensions of 
     up to one year for expiring contracts under such sections of 
     law.
            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund
       For necessary expenses as authorized by the National 
     Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 
     1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $12,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which $12,000,000 is to be 
     derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees Trust Fund: 
     Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated 
     under this heading shall be available from the general fund 
     of the Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations 
     and make expenditures pending the receipt of collections to 
     the Fund pursuant to section 620 of such Act: Provided 
     further, That the amount made available under this heading 
     from the general fund shall be reduced as such collections 
     are received during fiscal year 2019 so as to result in a 
     final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at zero, and fees pursuant to section 620 of such 
     Act shall be modified as necessary to ensure such a final 
     fiscal year 2019
     appropriation: Provided further, That for the dispute 
     resolution and installation programs, the Secretary may 
     assess and collect fees from any program participant: 
     Provided further, That such collections shall be deposited 
     into the Fund, and the Secretary, as provided herein, may use 
     such collections, as well as fees collected under section 620 
     of such Act, for necessary expenses of such Act: Provided 
     further, That, notwithstanding the requirements of section 
     620 of such Act, the Secretary may carry out responsibilities 
     of the Secretary under such Act through the use of approved 
     service providers that are paid directly by the recipients of 
     their services.
                     Federal Housing Administration
               mutual mortgage insurance program account
       New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured 
     under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed 
     $400,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020: Provided, That during fiscal year 2019, obligations to 
     make direct loans to carry out the purposes of section 204(g) 
     of the National Housing Act, as amended, shall not exceed 
     $1,000,000: Provided further, That the foregoing amount in 
     the previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
     governmental entities in connection with sales of single 
     family real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly 
     insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund: Provided 
     further, That for administrative contract expenses of the 
     Federal Housing Administration, $130,000,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided further, That to 
     the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
     $200,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2019, an additional 
     $1,400 for administrative contract expenses shall be 
     available for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan 
     commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount below 
     $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by 
     this proviso exceed $30,000,000: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding the limitation in the first sentence of 
     section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
     20(g)), during fiscal year 2019 the Secretary may insure and 
     enter into new commitments to insure mortgages under section 
     255 of the National Housing Act only to the extent that the 
     net credit subsidy cost for such insurance does not exceed 
     zero: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019, the 
     Secretary shall not take any action against a lender solely 
     on the basis of compare ratios that have been adversely 
     affected by defaults on mortgages secured by properties in 
     areas where a major disaster was declared in 2017 or 2018 
     pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
                general and special risk program account
       New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the 
     General and Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by 
     sections 238 and 519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
     1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not exceed $30,000,000,000 in total 
     loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     during fiscal year 2019, gross obligations for the principal 
     amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 
     207(l), 238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall 
     not exceed $1,000,000, which shall be for loans to nonprofit 
     and governmental entities in connection with the sale of 
     single family real properties owned by the Secretary and 
     formerly insured under such Act.
                Government National Mortgage Association
guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account
       New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the 
     purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
     amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed 
     $550,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020: Provided, That $27,000,000 shall be available for 
     necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Government 
     National Mortgage Association: Provided further, That to the 
     extent that guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
     $155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2019, an additional 
     $100 for necessary salaries and expenses shall be available 
     until expended for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed 
     loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
     below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available 
     by this proviso exceed $3,000,000: Provided further, That 
     receipts from Commitment and Multiclass fees collected 
     pursuant to title III of the National Housing Act, as 
     amended, shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
     account.
                    Policy Development and Research
                        research and technology
       For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs 
     of research and studies relating to housing and urban 
     problems, not otherwise provided for, as authorized by title 
     V of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 
     1701z-1 et seq.), including carrying out the functions of the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under section 
     1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for 
     technical assistance, $100,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020: Provided, That with respect to amounts 
     made available under this heading, notwithstanding section 
     203 of this title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
     agreements with philanthropic entities, other Federal 
     agencies, State or local governments and their agencies, or 
     colleges or universities for research projects: Provided 
     further, That with respect to the previous proviso, such 
     partners to the cooperative agreements must contribute at 
     least a 50 percent match toward the cost of the project: 
     Provided further, That for non-competitive agreements entered 
     into in accordance with the previous two provisos, the 
     Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall comply with 
     section 2(b) of the Federal Funding Accountability and 
     Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282, 31 U.S.C. note) 
     in lieu of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C) with respect 
     to documentation of award decisions: Provided further, That 
     prior to obligation of technical assistance funding, the 
     Secretary shall submit a plan, for approval, to the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations on how it will allocate 
     funding for this activity: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds provided under this heading may be available for the 
     doctoral dissertation research grant program.
                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity
                        fair housing activities
       For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise 
     provided for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights 
     Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 
     1988, and section 561 of the Housing and Community 
     Development Act of 1987, as amended, $65,300,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and 
     collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training 
     Academy, and may use such funds to provide such training: 
     Provided further, That no funds made available under this 
     heading shall be used to lobby the executive or legislative 
     branches of the Federal Government in connection with a 
     specific contract, grant, or loan: Provided further, That of 
     the funds made available under this heading, $300,000 shall 
     be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development for the creation and promotion of translated 
     materials and other programs that support the assistance of 
     persons with limited English proficiency in utilizing the 
     services provided by the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development.
            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes
                         lead hazard reduction
       For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by 
     section 1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard 
     Reduction Act of 1992, $260,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020, of which $45,000,000 shall be for 
     the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to sections 501 and 
     502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, which 
     shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
     efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-
     based paint poisoning and other housing-related diseases and 
     hazards: Provided, That for purposes of environmental review, 
     pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
     U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other provisions of law that further 
     the purposes of such Act, a grant under the Healthy Homes 
     Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies program under this 
     heading or under prior appropriations Acts for such purposes 
     under this heading, shall be considered to be funds for a 
     special project for purposes of section 305(c) of the 
     Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994: 
     Provided further, That not less than $95,000,000 of the 
     amounts made available under this heading for the award of 
     grants pursuant to section 1011 of the Residential Lead-Based 
     Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 shall be provided to areas 
     with the highest lead-based paint abatement needs: Provided 
     further, That $45,000,000 of the funds appropriated under 
     this heading shall be for the implementation of projects to 
     demonstrate how intensive, extended multi-year interventions 
     can dramatically reduce the presence of lead-based paint 
     hazards in communities containing high concentrations of both 
     pre-1940 housing and low-income families by achieving 
     economies of scale that substantially reduce the cost of 
     lead-based paint remediation activities and administrative 
     costs for grantees: Provided further, That such projects in 
     each of five communities shall be for five years and serve no 
     more than four contiguous census tracts in which there are 
     high concentrations of housing stock built before 1940, in 
     which low-income families with children make up a 
     significantly higher proportion of the population as compared 
     to the State average, and that are located in jurisdictions 
     in which instances of elevated blood lead levels reported to 
     the State are significantly higher than the State average: 
     Provided further, That funding awarded for such projects 
     shall be made available for draw down contingent upon the 
     grantee meeting cost-savings, productivity, and grant 
     compliance benchmarks established by the Secretary: Provided 
     further, That each recipent of funds for such projects shall 
     contribute an amount not less than 10 percent of the total 
     award, and that the Secretary shall give priority to 
     applicants that secure commitments for additional 
     contributions from public and private sources: Provided 
     further, That grantees currently receiving grants made under 
     this heading shall be eligible to apply for such projects, 
     provided that they are deemed to be in compliance with 
     program requirements established by
     the Secretary: Provided further, That each applicant shall 
     certify adequate capacity that is acceptable to the Secretary 
     to carry out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a notice 
     of funding availability: Provided further, That amounts made 
     available under this heading in this or prior appropriations 
     Acts, still remaining available, may be used for any purpose 
     under this heading notwithstanding the purpose for which such 
     amounts were appropriated if a program competition is 
     undersubscribed and there are other program competitions 
     under this heading that are oversubscribed.
                      Information Technology Fund
       For the development, modernization, and enhancement of, 
     modifications to, and infrastructure for Department-wide and 
     program-specific information technology systems, for the 
     continuing operation and maintenance of both Department-wide 
     and program-specific information systems, and for program-
     related maintenance activities, $280,000,000, of which 
     $260,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     and of which $20,000,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2021: Provided, That any amounts transferred to 
     this Fund under this Act shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided further, That any amounts transferred to 
     this Fund from amounts appropriated by previously enacted 
     appropriations Acts may be used for the purposes specified 
     under this Fund, in addition to any other information 
     technology purposes for which such amounts were appropriated: 
     Provided further, That not more than 10 percent of the funds 
     made available under this heading for development, 
     modernization and enhancement may be obligated until the 
     Secretary submits to the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations, for approval, a plan for expenditure that--
     (A) identifies for each modernization project: (i) the 
     functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and 
     the mission benefits to be realized, (ii) the estimated life-
     cycle cost, and (iii) key milestones to be met; and (B) 
     demonstrates that each modernization project is: (i) 
     compliant with the Department's enterprise architecture, (ii) 
     being managed in accordance with applicable life-cycle 
     management policies and guidance, (iii) subject to the 
     Department's capital planning and investment control 
     requirements, and (iv) supported by an adequately staffed 
     project office.
                      Office of Inspector General
       For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of 
     Inspector General in carrying out the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, as amended, $128,082,000: Provided, That the 
     Inspector General shall have independent authority over all 
     personnel issues within this office.
    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development
                     (including transfer of funds)
                         (including rescission)
       Sec. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, 
     or in lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated 
     with such budget authority, that are recaptured from projects 
     described in section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney 
     Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f 
     note) shall be rescinded or in the case of cash, shall be 
     remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
     authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to 
     the Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies 
     or local governments or local housing agencies with projects 
     approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
     for which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992, in 
     accordance with such section. Notwithstanding the previous 
     sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the 
     budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
     remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with 
     incentives to refinance their project at a lower interest 
     rate.
       Sec. 202. None of the amounts made available under this Act 
     may be used during fiscal year 2019 to investigate or 
     prosecute under the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful 
     activity engaged in by one or more persons, including the 
     filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal action, that is 
     engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or preventing 
     action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
     competent jurisdiction.
       Sec. 203. Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
     cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to 
     title II of this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and 
     in accordance with section 102 of the Department of Housing 
     and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
       Sec. 204. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development subject to the Government Corporation Control Act 
     or section 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, 
     without regard to the limitations on administrative expenses, 
     for legal services on a contract or fee basis, and for 
     utilizing and making payment for services and facilities of 
     the Federal National Mortgage Association, Government 
     National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
     Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or 
     any member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured 
     bank within the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
       Sec. 205. Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or 
     through a reprogramming of funds, no part of any 
     appropriation for the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development shall be available for any program, project or 
     activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
     estimates submitted to Congress.
       Sec. 206. Corporations and agencies of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development which are subject to the 
     Government Corporation Control Act are hereby authorized to 
     make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
     borrowing authority available to each such corporation or 
     agency and in accordance with law, and to make such contracts 
     and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
     provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in 
     carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 2019 
     for such corporation or agency except as hereinafter 
     provided: Provided, That collections of these corporations 
     and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage purchase 
     commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
     Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of 
     assistance provided for in this or prior appropriations 
     Acts), except that this proviso shall not apply to the 
     mortgage insurance or guaranty operations of these 
     corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases are 
     necessary to protect the financial interest of the United 
     States Government.
       Sec. 207. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
     shall provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, 
     unobligated, recaptured and excess funds in each program and 
     activity within the jurisdiction of the Department and shall 
     submit additional, updated budget information to these 
     Committees upon request.
       Sec. 208. The President's formal budget request for fiscal 
     year 2020, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development's congressional budget justifications to be 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, shall use the identical 
     account and sub-account structure provided under this Act.
       Sec. 209. No funds provided under this title may be used 
     for an audit of the Government National Mortgage Association 
     that makes applicable requirements under the Federal Credit 
     Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
       Sec. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     subject to the conditions listed under this section, for 
     fiscal years 2019 and 2020, the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development may authorize the transfer of some or all 
     project-based assistance, debt held or insured by the 
     Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
     income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more 
     multifamily housing project or projects to another 
     multifamily housing project or projects.
       (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based 
     assistance under this section may be done in phases to 
     accommodate the financing and other requirements related to 
     rehabilitating or constructing the project or projects to 
     which the assistance is transferred, to ensure that such 
     project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
       (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to 
     the following conditions:
       (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
       (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: The 
     number of low-income and very low-income units and the 
     configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
     transferring project shall be no less than when transferred 
     to the receiving project or projects and the net dollar 
     amount of Federal assistance provided to the transferring 
     project shall remain the same in the receiving project or 
     projects.
       (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring project: The 
     Secretary may authorize a reduction in the number of dwelling 
     units in the receiving project or projects to allow for a 
     reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet current market 
     demands, as determined by the Secretary and provided there is 
     no increase in the project-based assistance budget authority.
       (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
     Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
     nonviable.
       (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
     applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
       (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
     shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
     transferring project and provide a certification of approval 
     by all appropriate local governmental officials.
       (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
     eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving 
     project or projects shall not be required to vacate their 
     units in the transferring project or projects until new units 
     in the receiving project are available for occupancy.
       (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
     best interest of the tenants.
       (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
     project or projects meets the condition specified in 
     subsection (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project 
     resulting from additional financing obtained by the owner 
     shall be subordinate to any FHA-insured mortgage lien 
     transferred to, or placed on, such project by the Secretary, 
     except that the Secretary may waive this requirement upon 
     determination that such a waiver is necessary to facilitate 
     the financing of acquisition, construction, and/or 
     rehabilitation of the receiving project or projects.
       (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
     subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
     project or
     projects shall execute and record either a continuation of 
     the existing use agreement or a new use agreement for the 
     project where, in either case, any use restrictions in such 
     agreement are of no lesser duration than the existing use 
     restrictions.
       (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
     section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
     amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent 
     that appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of 
     any such increased cost.
       (d) For purposes of this section--
       (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
     have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
     governing the program under which the project is insured or 
     assisted;
       (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
     that meets one of the following conditions--
       (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured under the 
     National Housing Act;
       (B) housing that has project-based assistance attached to 
     the structure including projects undergoing mark to market 
     debt restructuring under the Multifamily Assisted Housing 
     Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
       (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of the 
     Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of the 
     Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
       (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of the 
     Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before the 
     enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable 
     Housing Act;
       (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of the 
     Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; or
       (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
     agreement;
       (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
       (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the United 
     States Housing Act of 1937;
       (B) assistance for housing constructed or substantially 
     rehabilitated pursuant to assistance provided under section 
     8(b)(2) of such Act (as such section existed immediately 
     before October 1, 1983);
       (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of the 
     Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
       (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 and/or 
     additional assistance payments under section 236(f)(2) of the 
     National Housing Act;
       (E) assistance payments made under section 202(c)(2) of the 
     Housing Act of 1959; and
       (F) assistance payments made under section 811(d)(2) of the 
     Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act;
       (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
     multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all 
     of the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily 
     required low-income and very low-income use restrictions are 
     to be transferred;
       (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
     housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
     project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
     low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
     receiving project or projects; and
       (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
     and Urban Development.
       (e) Research Report.--The Secretary shall conduct an 
     evaluation of the transfer authority under this section, 
     including the effect of such transfers on the operational 
     efficiency, contract rents, physical and financial 
     conditions, and long-term preservation of the affected 
     properties.
       Sec. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 
     8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) 
     to any individual who--
       (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
     education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
       (2) is under 24 years of age;
       (3) is not a veteran;
       (4) is unmarried;
       (5) does not have a dependent child;
       (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
     defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing 
     Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
     assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005;
       (7) is not a youth who left foster care at age 14 or older 
     and is at risk of becoming homeless; and
       (8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
     who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
     assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act 
     of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
       (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person 
     to receive assistance under section 8 of the United States 
     Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial 
     assistance (in excess of amounts received for tuition and any 
     other required fees and charges) that an individual receives 
     under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et 
     seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
     education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     (20 U.S.C. 1002)), shall be considered income to that 
     individual, except for a person over the age of 23 with 
     dependent children.
       Sec. 212. The funds made available for Native Alaskans 
     under the heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'' in 
     title II of this Act shall be allocated to the same Native 
     Alaskan housing block grant recipients that received funds in 
     fiscal year 2005.
       Sec. 213. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
     fiscal year 2019, in managing and disposing of any 
     multifamily property that is owned or has a mortgage held by 
     the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and during 
     the process of foreclosure on any property with a contract 
     for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
     States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the 
     Secretary shall maintain any rental assistance payments under 
     section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and other 
     programs that are attached to any dwelling units in the 
     property. To the extent the Secretary determines, in 
     consultation with the tenants and the local government, that 
     such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is 
     not feasible for continued rental assistance payments under 
     such section 8 or other programs, based on consideration of 
     (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
     and all available Federal, State, and local resources, 
     including rent adjustments under section 524 of the 
     Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
     1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that 
     cannot be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary 
     may, in consultation with the tenants of that property, 
     contract for project-based rental assistance payments with an 
     owner or owners of other existing housing properties, or 
     provide other rental assistance. The Secretary shall also 
     take appropriate steps to ensure that project-based contracts 
     remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
     exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist 
     relocation of tenants for imminent major threats to health 
     and safety after written notice to and informed consent of 
     the affected tenants and use of other available remedies, 
     such as partial abatements or receivership. After disposition 
     of any multifamily property described under this section, the 
     contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall 
     be subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
       Sec. 214. The commitment authority funded by fees as 
     provided under the heading ``Community Development Loan 
     Guarantees Program Account'' may be used to guarantee, or 
     make commitments to guarantee, notes, or other obligations 
     issued by any State on behalf of non-entitlement communities 
     in the State in accordance with the requirements of section 
     108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974: 
     Provided, That any State receiving such a guarantee or 
     commitment shall distribute all funds subject to such 
     guarantee to the units of general local government in non-
     entitlement areas that received the commitment.
       Sec. 215. Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 
     or fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any 
     asset management requirement imposed by the Secretary of 
     Housing and Urban Development in connection with the 
     operating fund rule: Provided, That an agency seeking a 
     discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the operating 
     fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
     requirements.
       Sec. 216. With respect to the use of amounts provided in 
     this Act and in future Acts for the operation, capital 
     improvement and management of public housing as authorized by 
     sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 
     1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not 
     impose any requirement or guideline relating to asset 
     management that restricts or limits in any way the use of 
     capital funds for central office costs pursuant to section 
     9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
     (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)): Provided, That a public housing 
     agency may not use capital funds authorized under section 
     9(d) for activities that are eligible under section 9(e) for 
     assistance with amounts from the operating fund in excess of 
     the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
       Sec. 217. No official or employee of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development shall be designated as an 
     allotment holder unless the Office of the Chief Financial 
     Officer has determined that such allotment holder has 
     implemented an adequate system of funds control and has 
     received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
     The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a 
     trained allotment holder for each HUD appropriation under the 
     accounts ``Executive Offices'' and ``Administrative Support 
     Offices,'' as well as each account receiving appropriations 
     under the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and 
     Expenses'', ``Government National Mortgage Association--
     Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee 
     Program Account'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' within 
     the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
       Sec. 218. The Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
     Urban Development shall, for fiscal year 2019, notify the 
     public through the Federal Register and other means, as 
     determined appropriate, of the issuance of a notice of the 
     availability of assistance or notice of funding availability 
     (NOFA) for any program or discretionary fund administered by 
     the Secretary that is to be competitively awarded. 
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 
     2019, the Secretary may make the NOFA available only on the 
     Internet at the appropriate Government web site or through 
     other electronic media, as determined by the Secretary.
       Sec. 219. Payment of attorney fees in program-related 
     litigation shall be paid from the individual program office 
     and Office of General Counsel salaries and expenses 
     appropriations. The annual budget submission for
     the program offices and the Office of General Counsel shall 
     include any such projected litigation costs for attorney fees 
     as a separate line item request. No funds provided in this 
     title may be used to pay any such litigation costs for 
     attorney fees until the Department submits for review a 
     spending plan for such costs to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       Sec. 220. The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 
     percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less, of funds 
     appropriated for any office under the heading 
     ``Administrative Support Offices'' or for any account under 
     the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' 
     to any other such office or account: Provided, That no 
     appropriation for any such office or account shall be 
     increased or decreased by more than 10 percent or $5,000,000, 
     whichever is less, without prior written approval of the 
     House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That the Secretary shall provide notification to 
     such Committees three business days in advance of any such 
     transfers under this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, 
     whichever is less.
       Sec. 221. (a) Any entity receiving housing assistance 
     payments shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary 
     conditions, as determined by the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Secretary''), and comply with any standards under 
     applicable State or local laws, rules, ordinances, or 
     regulations relating to the physical condition of any 
     property covered under a housing assistance payment contract.
       (b) The Secretary shall take action under subsection (c) 
     when a multifamily housing project with a section 8 contract 
     or contract for similar project-based assistance--
       (1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) 
     score of 60 or less; or
       (2) fails to certify in writing to the Secretary within 3 
     days that all Exigent Health and Safety deficiencies 
     identified by the inspector at the project have been 
     corrected.
     Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured 
     projects with assistance attached to the units under section 
     8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), 
     but do not apply to such units assisted under section 
     8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public housing units 
     assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 of 
     the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
       (c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the REAC 
     inspection, the Secretary must provide the owner with a 
     Notice of Default with a specified timetable, determined by 
     the Secretary, for correcting all deficiencies. The Secretary 
     must also provide a copy of the Notice of Default to the 
     tenants, the local government, any mortgagees, and any 
     contract administrator. If the owner's appeal results in a 
     UPCS score of 60 or above, the Secretary may withdraw the 
     Notice of Default.
       (2) At the end of the time period for correcting all 
     deficiencies specified in the Notice of Default, if the owner 
     fails to fully correct such deficiencies, the Secretary may--
       (A) require immediate replacement of project management 
     with a management agent approved by the Secretary;
       (B) impose civil money penalties, which shall be used 
     solely for the purpose of supporting safe and sanitary 
     conditions at applicable properties, as designated by the 
     Secretary, with priority given to the tenants of the property 
     affected by the penalty;
       (C) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
     abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
     deficiencies have been corrected;
       (D) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, approved by 
     the Secretary under established procedures, which will be 
     obligated to promptly make all required repairs and to accept 
     renewal of the assistance contract as long as such renewal is 
     offered;
       (E) transfer the existing section 8 contract to another 
     project or projects and owner or owners;
       (F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or 
     debarments from Federal programs;
       (G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the 
     property and cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial 
     order of specific performance requiring the owner to cure all 
     project deficiencies;
       (H) work with the owner, lender, or other related party to 
     stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property 
     through compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of 
     capital provided by a third-party that requires time to 
     effectuate; or
       (I) take any other regulatory or contractual remedies 
     available as deemed necessary and appropriate by the 
     Secretary.
       (d) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to 
     ensure that project-based contracts remain in effect, subject 
     to the exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist 
     relocation of tenants for major threats to health and safety 
     after written notice to the affected tenants. To the extent 
     the Secretary determines, in consultation with the tenants 
     and the local government, that the property is not feasible 
     for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
     or other programs, based on consideration of--
       (1) the costs of rehabilitating and operating the property 
     and all available Federal, State, and local resources, 
     including rent adjustments under section 524 of the 
     Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
     1997 (``MAHRAA''); and
       (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied in a 
     cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may contract for 
     project-based rental assistance payments with an owner or 
     owners of other existing housing properties, or provide other 
     rental assistance.
       (e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on all properties 
     covered by this section that are assessed through the Real 
     Estate Assessment Center and have UPCS physical inspection 
     scores of less than 60 or have received an unsatisfactory 
     management and occupancy review within the past 36 months. 
     The report shall include--
       (1) the enforcement actions being taken to address such 
     conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
     termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
     such conditions multiple times;
       (2) actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
     properties; and
       (3) any administrative or legislative recommendations to 
     further improve the living conditions at properties covered 
     under a housing assistance payment contract.
     This report shall be due to the Senate and House Committees 
     on Appropriations no later than 30 days after the enactment 
     of this Act, and on the first business day of each Federal 
     fiscal year quarter thereafter while this section remains in 
     effect.
       Sec. 222. None of the funds made available by this Act, or 
     any other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only 
     with respect to the tenant-based rental assistance program) 
     and section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
     U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used by any public housing 
     agency for any amount of salary, including bonuses, for the 
     chief executive officer of which, or any other official or 
     employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic pay 
     payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
     at any time during any public housing agency fiscal year 
     2019.
       Sec. 223. None of the funds in this Act provided to the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development may be used to 
     make a grant award unless the Secretary notifies the House 
     and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
     business days before any project, State, locality, housing 
     authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or other entity 
     selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
     Department or its offices.
       Sec. 224. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment 
     (PNA).
       Sec. 225. None of the funds made available in this Act 
     shall be used by the Federal Housing Administration, the 
     Government National Mortgage Administration, or the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development to insure, 
     securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of any mortgage 
     or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
     replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
     condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any 
     other political subdivision of a State.
       Sec. 226. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to terminate the status of a unit of general local 
     government as a metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 
     of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
     U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to grants under section 106 of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
       Sec. 227. Amounts made available under this Act which are 
     either appropriated, allocated, advanced on a reimbursable 
     basis, or transferred to the Office of Policy Development and 
     Research in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
     and functions thereof, for research, evaluation, or 
     statistical purposes, and which are unexpended at the time of 
     completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement, 
     may be deobligated and shall immediately become available and 
     may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent 
     fiscal year for the research, evaluation, or statistical 
     purposes for which the amounts are made available to that 
     Office subject to reprogramming requirements in section 405 
     of this Act.
       Sec. 228. None of the funds provided in this Act or any 
     other act may be used for awards, including performance, 
     special act, or spot, for any employee of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development who has been subject to 
     administrative discipline in fiscal years 2018 or 2019, 
     including suspension from work.
       Sec. 229. Funds made available in this title under the 
     heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'' may be used by the 
     Secretary to participate in Performance Partnership Pilots 
     authorized under section 526 of division H of Public Law 113-
     76, section 524 of division G of Public Law 113-235, section 
     525 of division H of Public Law 114-113, and such authorities 
     as are enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots in an 
     appropriations Act for fiscal year 2019: Provided, That such 
     participation shall be limited to no more than 10 continuums 
     of care and housing activities to improve outcomes for 
     disconnected youth.
       Sec. 230. With respect to grant amounts awarded under the 
     heading ``Homeless Assistance Grants'' for fiscal years 2015, 
     2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 for the continuum of care (CoC) 
     program as authorized under subtitle C of title IV of the 
     McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, costs paid by program 
     income of grant recipients may count toward meeting the 
     recipient's matching requirements, provided the costs are 
     eligible CoC costs that supplement the recipient's CoC 
     program.
       Sec. 231. (a) From amounts made available under this title 
     under the heading ``Homeless
     Assistance Grants'', the Secretary may award 1-year 
     transition grants to recipients of funds for activities under 
     subtitle C of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to transition from one Continuum of 
     Care program component to another.
       (b) No more than 50 percent of each transition grant may be 
     used for costs of eligible activities of the program 
     component originally funded.
       (c) Transition grants made under this section are eligible 
     for renewal in subsequent fiscal years for the eligible 
     activities of the new program component.
       (d) In order to be eligible to receive a transition grant, 
     the funding recipient must have the consent of the Continuum 
     of Care and meet standards determined by the Secretary.
       Sec. 232. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to 
     direct a grantee to undertake specific changes to existing 
     zoning laws as part of carrying out the final rule entitled 
     ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing'' (80 Fed. Reg. 42272 
     (July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled ``Affirmatively 
     Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool'' (79 Fed. Reg. 57949 
     (September 26, 2014)).
       Sec. 233. Section 218(g) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
     Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply 
     with respect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw funds 
     from its HOME Investment Trust Fund that otherwise expired or 
     would expire in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 or 2021 under 
     that section.
       Sec. 234. The Promise Zone designations and Promise Zone 
     Designation Agreements entered into pursuant to such 
     designations, made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development in prior fiscal years, shall remain in effect in 
     accordance with the terms and conditions of such agreements.
       Sec. 235. The Secretary shall initiate a comprehensive 
     review of existing public housing and tenant-based rental 
     assistance regulations and related notices and other guidance 
     documents to identify opportunities to streamline the 
     administration of such programs while also ensuring 
     compliance with Federal financial and internal control 
     requirements. The Secretary shall establish a regulatory 
     advisory committee, composed of program and research experts 
     from the Department, a fair representation of public housing 
     agencies, and independent subject matter experts in housing 
     policy, property management, and Federal grant management, 
     which shall advise the Secretary with respect to specific 
     policy proposals to reduce administrative burden. The 
     Secretary, in consultation with the advisory committee, shall 
     submit a report on the results of such regulatory review to 
     the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations no later 
     than one year after the date of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 236. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to establish and apply a ranking factor in the 
     selection and award of any funds made available and requiring 
     competitive selection under this Act, including preference or 
     bonus points or other incentives for participation in or 
     coordination with EnVision Centers.
       Sec. 237. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
     Development shall continue to engage in efforts authorized by 
     the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 
     (Public Law 113-4; 127 Stat. 54) to ensure that survivors of 
     domestic violence and sexual assault are not unlawfully 
     evicted or denied housing by certain landlords based on their 
     experience as survivors.
       (b) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
     shall submit to Congress a report on the efforts described in 
     subsection (a).
       Sec. 238. None of the funds made available under this Act 
     may be used to provide housing assistance benefits for an 
     individual who is convicted of--
       (1) aggravated sexual abuse under section 2241 of title 18, 
     United States Code;
       (2) murder under section 1111 of title 18, United States 
     Code; or
       (3) any other Federal or State offense involving--
       (A) severe forms of trafficking in persons or sex 
     trafficking, as those terms are defined in paragraphs (9) and 
     (10), respectively, of section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102); or
       (B) child pornography, as defined in section 2256 of title 
     18, United States Code.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and 
     Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2019''.
                               TITLE III
                            RELATED AGENCIES
                              Access Board
                         salaries and expenses
       For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized 
     by section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
     $8,400,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, there may be credited to this appropriation 
     funds received for publications and training expenses.
                      Federal Maritime Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission 
     as authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
     1936, as amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as 
     authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles 
     as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or 
     allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902, 
     $27,490,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.
                National Railroad Passenger Corporation
                      Office of Inspector General
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     for the National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out 
     the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
     amended, $23,274,000: Provided, That the Inspector General 
     shall have all necessary authority, in carrying out the 
     duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5 
     U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
     including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 
     1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation 
     by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation: Provided 
     further, That the Inspector General may enter into contracts 
     and other arrangements for audits, studies, analyses, and 
     other services with public agencies and with private persons, 
     subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern 
     the obtaining of such services within the National Railroad 
     Passenger Corporation: Provided further, That the Inspector 
     General may select, appoint, and employ such officers and 
     employees as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, 
     powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector General, 
     subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern 
     such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
     Corporation: Provided further, That concurrent with the 
     President's budget request for fiscal year 2020, the 
     Inspector General shall submit to the House and Senate 
     Committees on Appropriations a budget request for fiscal year 
     2020 in similar format and substance to those submitted by 
     executive agencies of the Federal Government: Provided 
     further, That not later than 240 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Inspector General shall update the 
     report entitled ``Effects of Amtrak's Poor On-Time 
     Performance'', numbered CR-2008-047, and dated March 28, 
     2008, and make the updated report publicly available.
                  National Transportation Safety Board
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the National Transportation 
     Safety Board, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
     aircraft; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at 
     rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
     equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
     $110,400,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for 
     official reception and representation expenses. The amounts 
     made available to the National Transportation Safety Board in 
     this Act include amounts necessary to make lease payments on 
     an obligation incurred in fiscal year 2001 for a capital 
     lease.
                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation
       For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation 
     for use in neighborhood reinvestment activities, as 
     authorized by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act 
     (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $145,000,000, of which $5,000,000 
     shall be for a multi-family rental housing program: Provided, 
     That an additional $2,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2023, shall be for the promotion and 
     development of shared equity housing models.
                      Surface Transportation Board
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
     including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000: 
     Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees established by the 
     Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board shall be 
     credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections and 
     used for necessary and authorized expenses under this 
     heading: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
     from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar 
     basis as such offsetting collections are received during 
     fiscal year 2019, to result in a final appropriation from the 
     general fund estimated at no more than $35,850,000.
           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness
                           operating expenses
       For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
     authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the 
     rental of conference rooms, and the employment of experts and 
     consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States 
     Code) of the United States Interagency Council on 
     Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title 
     II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, 
     $3,600,000: Provided, That the first proviso in Public Law 
     115-141 under the heading ``United States Interagency Council 
     on Homelessness--Operating Expenses'' is amended by striking 
     ``2020'' and inserting ``2021''.
                                TITLE IV
                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT
       Sec. 401. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
     the planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses 
     of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening 
     in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
       Sec. 402. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
     remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
     year, nor may
     any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly 
     so provided herein.
       Sec. 403. The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through a procurement contract 
     pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
     are a matter of public record and available for public 
     inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing 
     law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
     existing law.
       Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
       (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
     and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
     official duties;
       (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
     emotional response or psychological stress in some 
     participants;
       (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
     content and methods to be used in the training and written 
     end of course evaluation;
       (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
     religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
     belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
     Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
       (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
     personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
     otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing 
     directly upon the performance of official duties.
       Sec. 405. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of 
     the funds provided in this Act, provided by previous 
     appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities funded in 
     this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
     in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any accounts in the 
     Treasury derived by the collection of fees and available to 
     the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
     obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
     that--
       (1) creates a new program;
       (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
       (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
     or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
     the Congress;
       (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
     by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations 
     for a different purpose;
       (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
     excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
       (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
     $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
       (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
     division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
     administration, or department different from the budget 
     justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
     or the tables in the explanatory statement described in 
     section 3 (in the matter preceding division A of this 
     consolidated Act), whichever is more detailed, unless prior 
     approval is received from the House and Senate Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That not later than 60 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this 
     Act shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
     of the Senate and of the House of Representatives to 
     establish the baseline for application of reprogramming and 
     transfer authorities for the current fiscal year: Provided 
     further, That the report shall include--
       (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
     to display the prior year enacted level, the President's 
     budget request, adjustments made by Congress, adjustments due 
     to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year 
     enacted level;
       (B) a delineation in the table for each appropriation and 
     its respective prior year enacted level by object class and 
     program, project, and activity as detailed in the budget 
     appendix for the respective appropriation; and
       (C) an identification of items of special congressional 
     interest.
       Sec. 406. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, 
     not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining 
     available at the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropriations 
     made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2019 
     in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 
     2020, for each such account for the purposes authorized: 
     Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House and 
     Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
     expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these 
     requests shall be made in compliance with reprogramming 
     guidelines under section 405 of this Act.
       Sec. 407. No funds in this Act may be used to support any 
     Federal, State, or local projects that seek to use the power 
     of eminent domain, unless eminent domain is employed only for 
     a public use: Provided, That for purposes of this section, 
     public use shall not be construed to include economic 
     development that primarily benefits private entities: 
     Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, 
     railroad, airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as 
     utility projects which benefit or serve the general public 
     (including energy-related, communication-related, water-
     related and wastewater-related infrastructure), other 
     structures designated for use by the general public or which 
     have other common-carrier or public-utility functions that 
     serve the general public and are subject to regulation and 
     oversight by the government, and projects for the removal of 
     an immediate threat to public health and safety or 
     brownfields as defined in the Small Business Liability Relief 
     and Brownfields Revitalization Act (Public Law 107-118) shall 
     be considered a public use for purposes of eminent domain.
       Sec. 408. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriations Act.
       Sec. 409. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be available to pay the salary for any person 
     filling a position, other than a temporary position, formerly 
     held by an employee who has left to enter the Armed Forces of 
     the United States and has satisfactorily completed his or her 
     period of active military or naval service, and has within 90 
     days after his or her release from such service or from 
     hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of 
     not more than 1 year, made application for restoration to his 
     or her former position and has been certified by the Office 
     of Personnel Management as still qualified to perform the 
     duties of his or her former position and has not been 
     restored thereto.
       Sec. 410. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
     expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
     expending the assistance the entity will comply with sections 
     2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305, 
     popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
       Sec. 411. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     under this Act shall be made available to any person or 
     entity that has been convicted of violating the Buy American 
     Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
       Sec. 412. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used for first-class airline accommodations in 
     contravention of sections 301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 
     41, Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 413. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under 
     sections 41301 through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, 
     or exemption application under section 40109 of that title of 
     an air carrier already holding an air operators certificate 
     issued by a country that is party to the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-
     Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval would 
     contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-
     E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or 
     otherwise preclude the Secretary of Transportation from 
     granting a foreign air carrier permit or an exemption to such 
     an air carrier where such authorization is consistent with 
     the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement and 
     United States law.
       Sec. 414. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
     than 50 employees of a single agency or department of the 
     United States Government, who are stationed in the United 
     States, at any single international conference unless the 
     relevant Secretary reports to the House and Senate Committees 
     on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that such 
     attendance is important to the national interest: Provided, 
     That for purposes of this section the term ``international 
     conference'' shall mean a conference occurring outside of the 
     United States attended by representatives of the United 
     States Government and of foreign governments, international 
     organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.
       Sec. 415. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used by the Surface 
     Transportation Board to charge or collect any filing fee for 
     rate or practice complaints filed with the Board in an amount 
     in excess of the amount authorized for district court civil 
     suit filing fees under section 1914 of title 28, United 
     States Code.
       Sec. 416. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used by the Department of Transportation, the Department 
     of Housing and Urban Development, or any other Federal agency 
     to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any 
     executive fleet, or for an agency's fleet inventory, except 
     in accordance with Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet 
     Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
       Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.
       Sec. 418. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to deny an Inspector General funded under this 
     Act timely access to any records, documents, or other 
     materials available to the department or agency over which 
     that Inspector General has responsibilities under the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent 
     or impede that Inspector General's access to such records, 
     documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
     except a provision of law that expressly refers to the 
     Inspector General and expressly limits the Inspector 
     General's right of access.
       (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall 
     provide its Inspector General with access to all such 
     records, documents, and other materials in a timely manner.
       (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with 
     statutory limitations on disclosure relevant to the 
     information provided by the establishment over which that 
     Inspector General has responsibilities under the Inspector 
     General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
       (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate within 5 calendar days any 
     failures to comply with this requirement.
       Sec. 419. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive 
     fees for contractors whose performance has been judged to be 
     below satisfactory, behind schedule, over budget, or has 
     failed to meet the basic requirements of a contract, unless 
     the Agency determines that any such deviations are due to 
     unforeseeable events, government-driven scope changes, or are 
     not significant within the overall scope of the project and/
     or program unless such awards or incentive fees are 
     consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
       Sec. 420. (a) Section 420 (a) None of the funds 
     appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act may 
     be used to acquire telecommunications equipment produced by 
     Huawei Technologies Company, ZTE Corporation or a high-impact 
     or moderate-impact information system, as defined for 
     security categorization in the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal Information 
     Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for Security 
     Categorization of Federal Information and Information 
     Systems'' unless the agency has--
       (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
     systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
     acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
     information systems within the Federal Government;
       (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
     awardee against available and relevant threat information 
     provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
     appropriate agencies; and
       (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted 
     an assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
     associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
     risk associated with such system being produced, 
     manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities identified 
     by the United States Government as posing a cyber threat, 
     including but not limited to, those that may be owned, 
     directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of China, 
     the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's 
     Republic of Korea, or the Russian Federation.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact 
     or moderate impact information system reviewed and assessed 
     under subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity 
     described in subsection (a) has--
       (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
     risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
     identified risks;
       (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation, that the acquisition of such system 
     is in the vital national security interest of the United 
     States; and
       (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     in a manner that identifies the system intended for 
     acquisition and a detailed description of the mitigation 
     strategies identified in (1), provided that such report may 
     include a classified annex as necessary.
       This division may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing 
     and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
     Act, 2019''.
    DIVISION E--COMMERCE AND JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
        That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
     Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Related 
     Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and 
     for other purposes, namely:
                                TITLE I
                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                   International Trade Administration
                     operations and administration
       For necessary expenses for international trade activities 
     of the Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for 
     engaging in trade promotional activities abroad, including 
     expenses of grants and cooperative agreements for the purpose 
     of promoting exports of United States firms, without regard 
     to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United States Code; 
     full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate 
     families of employees stationed overseas and employees 
     temporarily posted overseas; travel and transportation of 
     employees of the International Trade Administration between 
     two points abroad, without regard to section 40118 of title 
     49, United States Code; employment of citizens of the United 
     States and aliens by contract for services; rental of space 
     abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, and expenses of 
     alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction 
     of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
     abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in 
     the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
     States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not 
     to exceed $294,300 for official representation expenses 
     abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use 
     abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining 
     insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental of tie 
     lines, $499,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020, of which $11,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be 
     retained and used by the International Trade Administration, 
     notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code: 
     Provided, That, of amounts provided under this heading, not 
     less than $16,400,000 shall be for China antidumping and 
     countervailing duty enforcement and compliance activities: 
     Provided further, That the provisions of the first sentence 
     of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
     Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
     2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
     activities; and that for the purpose of this Act, 
     contributions under the provisions of the Mutual Educational 
     and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 shall include payment for 
     assessments for services provided as part of these 
     activities.
                    Bureau of Industry and Security
                     operations and administration
       For necessary expenses for export administration and 
     national security activities of the Department of Commerce, 
     including costs associated with the performance of export 
     administration field activities both domestically and abroad; 
     full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate 
     families of employees stationed overseas; employment of 
     citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
     services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner 
     authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 
     28, United States Code, when such claims arise in foreign 
     countries; not to exceed $13,500 for official representation 
     expenses abroad; awards of compensation to informers under 
     the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as authorized by 
     section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223; 22 
     U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
     official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with 
     special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without 
     regard to any price limitation otherwise established by law, 
     $121,600,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) 
     and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and 
     Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) 
     shall apply in carrying out these activities: Provided 
     further, That payments and contributions collected and 
     accepted for materials or services provided as part of such 
     activities may be retained for use in covering the cost of 
     such activities, and for providing information to the public 
     with respect to the export administration and national 
     security activities of the Department of Commerce and other 
     export control programs of the United States and other 
     governments.
                  Economic Development Administration
                economic development assistance programs
       For grants for economic development assistance as provided 
     by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for 
     trade adjustment assistance, and for grants authorized by 
     section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act 
     of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), $266,500,000, to remain available 
     until expended, of which $25,000,000 shall be for grants 
     under such section 27.
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of administering the economic 
     development assistance programs as provided for by law, 
     $39,000,000: Provided, That these funds may be used to 
     monitor projects approved pursuant to title I of the Public 
     Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act of 
     1974, section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
     Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Community 
     Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.
                  Minority Business Development Agency
                     minority business development
       For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in 
     fostering, promoting, and developing minority business 
     enterprise, including expenses of grants, contracts, and 
     other agreements with public or private organizations, 
     $39,000,000.
                   Economic and Statistical Analysis
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic 
     and statistical analysis programs of the Department of 
     Commerce, $102,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020.
                          Bureau of the Census
                      current surveys and programs
       For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, 
     analyzing, preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for 
     by law, $270,000,000: Provided, That, from amounts provided 
     herein, funds may be used for promotion, outreach, and 
     marketing activities: Provided further, That the Bureau of 
     the Census shall collect and analyze data for the Annual 
     Social and Economic Supplement to the Current Population 
     Survey using the same
     health insurance questions included in previous years, in 
     addition to the revised questions implemented in the Current 
     Population Survey beginning in February 2014.
                     periodic censuses and programs
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, 
     analyzing, preparing, and publishing statistics for periodic 
     censuses and programs provided for by law, $3,551,388,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That, 
     from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
     promotion, outreach, and marketing activities: Provided 
     further, That within the amounts appropriated, $3,556,000 
     shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' 
     account for activities associated with carrying out 
     investigations and audits related to the Bureau of the 
     Census: Provided further, That not more than 50 percent of 
     the amounts made available under this heading for information 
     technology related to 2020 census delivery, including the 
     Census Enterprise Data Collection and Processing (CEDCaP) 
     program, may be obligated until the Secretary updates the 
     previous expenditure plan and resubmits to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     a plan for expenditure that: (1) identifies for each CEDCaP 
     project/investment over $25,000: (A) the functional and 
     performance capabilities to be delivered and the mission 
     benefits to be realized; (B) an updated estimated lifecycle 
     cost, including cumulative expenditures to date by fiscal 
     year, and all revised estimates for development, maintenance, 
     and operations; (C) key milestones to be met; and (D) impacts 
     of cost variances on other Census programs; (2) details for 
     each project/investment: (A) reasons for any cost and 
     schedule variances; and (B) top risks and mitigation 
     strategies; and (3) has been submitted to the Government 
     Accountability Office.
       National Telecommunications and Information Administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the 
     National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
     (NTIA), $39,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the 
     Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies for costs 
     incurred in spectrum management, analysis, operations, and 
     related services, and such fees shall be retained and used as 
     offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum services, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as 
     offsetting collections all funds transferred, or previously 
     transferred, from other Government agencies for all costs 
     incurred in telecommunications research, engineering, and 
     related activities by the Institute for Telecommunication 
     Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned functions 
     under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
     Government agencies shall remain available until expended.
    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction
       For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
     unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are 
     available for the administration of all open grants until 
     their expiration.
               United States Patent and Trademark Office
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfers of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and 
     Trademark Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including 
     defense of suits instituted against the Under Secretary of 
     Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the USPTO, 
     $3,370,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
     be reduced as offsetting collections of fees and surcharges 
     assessed and collected by the USPTO under any law are 
     received during fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a fiscal 
     year 2019 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
     $0: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2019, should 
     the total amount of such offsetting collections be less than 
     $3,370,000,000 this amount shall be reduced accordingly: 
     Provided further, That any amount received in excess of 
     $3,370,000,000 in fiscal year 2019 and deposited in the 
     Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain available 
     until expended: Provided further, That the Director of USPTO 
     shall submit a spending plan to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     for any amounts made available by the preceding proviso and 
     such spending plan shall be treated as a reprogramming under 
     section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
     obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
     procedures set forth in that section: Provided further, That 
     any amounts reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding 
     proviso shall be transferred to the United States Patent and 
     Trademark Office ``Salaries and Expenses'' account: Provided 
     further, That from amounts provided herein, not to exceed 
     $900 shall be made available in fiscal year 2019 for official 
     reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
     in fiscal year 2019 from the amounts made available for 
     ``Salaries and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts 
     necessary to pay (1) the difference between the percentage of 
     basic pay contributed by the USPTO and employees under 
     section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and the 
     normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of 
     that title) as provided by the Office of Personnel Management 
     (OPM) for USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees 
     subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of that title, and 
     (2) the present value of the otherwise unfunded accruing 
     costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's specific use of post-
     retirement life insurance and post-retirement health benefits 
     coverage for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in Federal 
     Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group 
     Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil 
     Service Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and 
     the FEHB Fund, as appropriate, and shall be available for the 
     authorized purposes of those accounts: Provided further, That 
     any differences between the present value factors published 
     in OPM's yearly 300 series benefit letters and the factors 
     that OPM provides for USPTO's specific use shall be 
     recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial 
     statements, where applicable: Provided further, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, all fees and 
     surcharges assessed and collected by USPTO are available for 
     USPTO only pursuant to section 42(c) of title 35, United 
     States Code, as amended by section 22 of the Leahy-Smith 
     America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29): Provided further, 
     That within the amounts appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be 
     transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account 
     for activities associated with carrying out investigations 
     and audits related to the USPTO.
             National Institute of Standards and Technology
             scientific and technical research and services
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology (NIST), $724,500,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 
     may be transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund'': Provided, 
     That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for official reception and 
     representation expenses: Provided further, That NIST may 
     provide local transportation for summer undergraduate 
     research fellowship program participants.
                     industrial technology services
       For necessary expenses for industrial technology services, 
     $155,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
     $140,000,000 shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing 
     Extension Partnership, and of which $15,000,000 shall be for 
     the National Network for Manufacturing Innovation (also known 
     as ``Manufacturing USA'').
                  construction of research facilities
       For construction of new research facilities, including 
     architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
     maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided 
     for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, as 
     authorized by sections 13 through 15 of the National 
     Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-
     278e), $158,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include in the 
     budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
     Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as 
     submitted with the budget of the President under section 
     1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology construction 
     project having a total multi-year program cost of more than 
     $5,000,000, and simultaneously the budget justification 
     materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
     requirements for each such project for each of the 5 
     subsequent fiscal years.
            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                  operations, research, and facilities
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for 
     the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
     including maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and 
     vessels; pilot programs for state-led fisheries management, 
     including cooperative enforcement activities with States, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law; grants, 
     contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations for 
     the purposes of conducting activities pursuant to cooperative 
     agreements; and relocation of facilities, $3,599,126,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, except that funds 
     provided for cooperative enforcement shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2021: Provided, That fees and donations 
     received by the National Ocean Service for the management of 
     national marine sanctuaries may be retained and used for the 
     salaries and expenses associated with those activities, 
     notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code: 
     Provided further, That in addition, $157,980,000 shall be 
     derived by transfer from the fund entitled ``Promote and 
     Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to American 
     Fisheries'', which shall only be used for fishery activities 
     related to the Saltonstall-Kennedy Grant Program, Cooperative 
     Research, Annual Stock Assessments, Survey and Monitoring 
     Projects, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Grants, and Fish 
     Information Networks: Provided further, That of the
     $3,774,606,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
     heading, $3,599,126,000 is appropriated from the general 
     fund, $157,980,000 is provided by transfer, and $17,500,000 
     is derived from recoveries of prior year obligations: 
     Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts 
     designated for specific activities in the tables in the 
     explanatory statement described in section 3 (in the matter 
     preceding division A of this consolidated Act), or any use of 
     deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in 
     previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth 
     in section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That in 
     addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the 
     Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits 
     Plan, and for payments for the medical care of retired 
     personnel and their dependents under the Dependents' Medical 
     Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as may be necessary.
               procurement, acquisition and construction
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital 
     assets, including alteration and modification costs, of the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
     $1,806,479,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
     except that funds provided for acquisition and construction 
     of vessels and construction of facilities shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That of the 
     $1,819,479,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
     heading, $1,806,479,000 is appropriated from the general fund 
     and $13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of prior year 
     obligations: Provided further, That any deviation from the 
     amounts designated for specific activities in the tables in 
     the explanatory statement described in section 3 (in the 
     matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act), or any 
     use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this 
     heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures 
     set forth in section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That 
     the Secretary of Commerce shall include in budget 
     justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
     Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as 
     submitted with the budget of the President under section 
     1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration procurement, 
     acquisition or construction project having a total of more 
     than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget justification 
     shall include an estimate of the budgetary requirements for 
     each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal years: 
     Provided further, That, within the amounts appropriated, 
     $1,302,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector 
     General'' account for activities associated with carrying out 
     investigations and audits related to satellite procurement, 
     acquisition and construction.
                    pacific coastal salmon recovery
       For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of 
     Pacific salmon populations, $70,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided, That, of the funds 
     provided herein, the Secretary of Commerce may issue grants 
     to the States of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, 
     California, and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized 
     tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast (including 
     Alaska), for projects necessary for conservation of salmon 
     and steelhead populations that are listed as threatened or 
     endangered, or that are identified by a State as at-risk to 
     be so listed, for maintaining populations necessary for 
     exercise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native 
     subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific coastal 
     salmon and steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be 
     developed by the Secretary of Commerce: Provided further, 
     That all funds shall be allocated based on scientific and 
     other merit principles and shall not be available for 
     marketing activities: Provided further, That funds disbursed 
     to States shall be subject to a matching requirement of funds 
     or documented in-kind contributions of at least 33 percent of 
     the Federal funds.
                      fishermen's contingency fund
       For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 
     95-372, not to exceed $349,000, to be derived from receipts 
     collected pursuant to that Act, to remain available until 
     expended.
                      fishery disaster assistance
       For the necessary expenses associated with the mitigation 
     of fishery disasters, $15,000,000 to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That funds shall be used for mitigating 
     the effects of commercial fishery failures and fishery 
     resource disasters as declared by the Secretary of Commerce.
                   fisheries finance program account
       Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974, during fiscal year 2019, obligations of direct loans 
     may not exceed $24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans 
     and not to exceed $100,000,000 for traditional direct loans 
     as authorized by the Merchant Marine Act of 1936.
                        Departmental Management
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses for the management of the Department 
     of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
     $4,500 for official reception and representation, 
     $63,000,000.
                      renovation and modernization
       For necessary expenses for the renovation and modernization 
     of the Herbert C. Hoover Building, $38,612,000, to remain 
     available until expended.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $32,744,000.
               General Provisions--Department of Commerce
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 101. During the current fiscal year, applicable 
     appropriations and funds made available to the Department of 
     Commerce by this Act shall be available for the activities 
     specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to 
     the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, and, 
     notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced 
     payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
     of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
     such payments are in the public interest.
       Sec. 102. During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
     made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for 
     salaries and expenses shall be available for hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
     1344; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms 
     or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-
     5902).
       Sec. 103. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
     Commerce in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased 
     by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
     any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except 
     in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in advance 
     of the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset 
     (including land, structures, and equipment) not specifically 
     provided for in this Act or any other law appropriating funds 
     for the Department of Commerce.
       Sec. 104. The requirements set forth by section 105 of the 
     Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
     Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55), as amended by 
     section 105 of title I of division B of Public Law 113-6, are 
     hereby adopted by reference and made applicable with respect 
     to fiscal year 2019: Provided, That the life cycle cost for 
     the Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000, the life 
     cycle cost for the Geostationary Operational Environmental 
     Satellite R-Series Program is $10,828,059,000, and the life 
     cycle cost for the Polar Follow On Program is $7,573,000,000.
       Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary may furnish services (including but not limited to 
     utilities, telecommunications, and security services) 
     necessary to support the operation, maintenance, and 
     improvement of space that persons, firms, or organizations 
     are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings Cooperative 
     Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
     Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other 
     buildings, the maintenance, operation, and protection of 
     which has been delegated to the Secretary from the 
     Administrator of General Services pursuant to the Federal 
     Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
     reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
     reimbursement for services provided under this section or the 
     authority under which the use or occupancy of the space is 
     authorized, up to $200,000, shall be credited to the 
     appropriation or fund which initially bears the costs of such 
     services.
       Sec. 106. Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
     prevent a grant recipient from deterring child pornography, 
     copyright infringement, or any other unlawful activity over 
     its networks.
       Sec. 107. The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their 
     consent, with reimbursement and subject to the limits of 
     available appropriations, the land, services, equipment, 
     personnel, and facilities of any department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States, or of any State, local 
     government, Indian tribal government, Territory, or 
     possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or of 
     any foreign government or international organization, for 
     purposes related to carrying out the responsibilities of any 
     statute administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration.
       Sec. 108. The National Technical Information Service shall 
     not charge any customer for a copy of any report or document 
     generated by the Legislative Branch unless the Service has 
     provided information to the customer on how an electronic 
     copy of such report or document may be accessed and 
     downloaded for free online. Should a customer still require 
     the Service to provide a printed or digital copy of the 
     report or document, the charge shall be limited to recovering 
     the Service's cost of processing, reproducing, and delivering 
     such report or document.
       Sec. 109. The Secretary of Commerce may waive the 
     requirement for bonds under 40 U.S.C. 3131 with respect to 
     contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of 
     vessels, regardless of the terms of the contracts as to 
     payment or title, when the contract is made under the Coast 
     and Geodetic Survey Act of 1947 (33 U.S.C. 883a et seq.).
       Sec. 110. To carry out the responsibilities of the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the 
     Administrator of NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants 
     and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on a non-
     reimbursable basis land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
     facilities provided by; and (3) receive and expend funds made 
     available on a consensual basis from: a Federal agency, State 
     or subdivision thereof, local government, tribal government, 
     territory, or possession or any subdivisions thereof: 
     Provided, That funds received for permitting and related 
     regulatory activities pursuant to this section shall be 
     deposited under the heading ``National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration--Operations, Research, and 
     Facilities'' and shall remain available until September 30, 
     2021, for such purposes: Provided further, That all funds 
     within this section and their corresponding uses are subject 
     to section 505 of this Act.
       Sec. 111. Amounts provided by this Act or by any prior 
     appropriations Act that remain available for obligation, for 
     necessary expenses of the programs of the Economics and 
     Statistics Administration of the Department of Commerce, 
     including amounts provided for programs of the Bureau of 
     Economic Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall be 
     available for expenses of cooperative agreements with 
     appropriate entities, including any Federal, State, or local 
     governmental unit, or institution of higher education, to aid 
     and promote statistical, research, and methodology activities 
     which further the purposes for which such amounts have been 
     made available.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''.
                                TITLE II
                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
                         General Administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For expenses necessary for the administration of the 
     Department of Justice, $114,000,000, of which not to exceed 
     $4,000,000 for security and construction of Department of 
     Justice facilities shall remain available until expended.
                 justice information sharing technology
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
     including planning, development, deployment and departmental 
     direction, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That the Attorney General may transfer up to 
     $35,400,000 to this account, from funds available to the 
     Department of Justice for information technology, to remain 
     available until expended, for enterprise-wide information 
     technology initiatives: Provided further, That the transfer 
     authority in the preceding proviso is in addition to any 
     other transfer authority contained in this Act: Provided 
     further, That any transfer pursuant to the first proviso 
     shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this 
     Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
     except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
     section.
                executive office for immigration review
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For expenses necessary for the administration of 
     immigration-related activities of the Executive Office for 
     Immigration Review, $563,407,000, of which $4,000,000 shall 
     be derived by transfer from the Executive Office for 
     Immigration Review fees deposited in the ``Immigration 
     Examinations Fee'' account, and of which not less than 
     $10,400,000 shall be available for services and activities 
     provided by the Legal Orientation Program: Provided, That not 
     to exceed $35,000,000 of the total amount made available 
     under this heading shall remain available until expended.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     $99,195,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet 
     unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character.
                    United States Parole Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the United States Parole 
     Commission as authorized, $13,308,000: Provided, That, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the 
     expiration of a term of office of a Commissioner, the 
     Commissioner may continue to act until a successor has been 
     appointed.
                            Legal Activities
            salaries and expenses, general legal activities
       For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the 
     Department of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including 
     not to exceed $20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to 
     be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for 
     solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; the 
     administration of pardon and clemency petitions; and rent of 
     private or Government-owned space in the District of 
     Columbia, $910,500,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
     for litigation support contracts shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of the amount provided for INTERPOL 
     Washington dues payments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided further, That of the total 
     amount appropriated, not to exceed $9,000 shall be available 
     to INTERPOL Washington for official reception and 
     representation expenses: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a determination 
     by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances require 
     additional funding for litigation activities of the Civil 
     Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to 
     ``Salaries and Expenses, General Legal Activities'' from 
     available appropriations for the current fiscal year for the 
     Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
     circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant 
     to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
     under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
     obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
     procedures set forth in that section: Provided further, That 
     of the amount appropriated, such sums as may be necessary 
     shall be available to the Civil Rights Division for salaries 
     and expenses associated with the election monitoring program 
     under section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 
     10305) and to reimburse the Office of Personnel Management 
     for such salaries and expenses: Provided further, That of the 
     amounts provided under this heading for the election 
     monitoring program, $3,390,000 shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, 
     not less than $200,378,000 shall be available for the 
     Criminal Division, including related expenses for the Mutual 
     Legal Assistance Treaty Program.
       In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the 
     Department of Justice associated with processing cases under 
     the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to 
     exceed $10,000,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine 
     Injury Compensation Trust Fund.
               salaries and expenses, antitrust division
       For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and 
     kindred laws, $164,977,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, fees collected for premerger notification filings 
     under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 
     1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection 
     (and estimated to be $136,000,000 in fiscal year 2019), shall 
     be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
     appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: 
     Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
     general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections 
     are received during fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a 
     final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the general fund 
     estimated at $28,977,000.
             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys
       For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
     Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative 
     agreements, $2,179,485,000: Provided, That of the total 
     amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,200 shall be available 
     for official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
     further, That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided further, That each United 
     States Attorney shall establish or participate in a task 
     force on human trafficking.
                   united states trustee system fund
       For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee 
     Program, as authorized, $225,908,000, to remain available 
     until expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, deposits to the United States Trustee 
     System Fund and amounts herein appropriated shall be 
     available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds 
     due depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, fees collected pursuant to section 
     589a(b) of title 28, United States Code, shall be retained 
     and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation and 
     shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     to the extent that fees collected in fiscal year 2019, net of 
     amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, exceed 
     $225,908,000, those excess amounts shall be available in 
     future fiscal years only to the extent provided in advance in 
     appropriations Acts: Provided further, That the sum herein 
     appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced (1) as 
     such fees are received during fiscal year 2019, net of 
     amounts necessary to pay refunds due depositors, (estimated 
     at $360,000,000) and (2) to the extent that any remaining 
     general fund appropriations can be derived from amounts 
     deposited in the Fund in previous fiscal years that are not 
     otherwise appropriated, so as to result in a final fiscal 
     year 2019 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
     $0.
      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission
       For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
     Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, including services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     $2,409,000.
                     fees and expenses of witnesses
       For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of 
     contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
     witnesses, for private counsel expenses, including advances, 
     and for expenses of foreign counsel, $270,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $16,000,000 
     is for construction of buildings for protected witness 
     safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and 
     maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness 
     security caravans; and not to exceed $15,000,000 is for the 
     purchase, installation, maintenance, and upgrade of secure 
     telecommunications equipment and a secure automated 
     information network to store and retrieve the identities and 
     locations of protected witnesses: Provided, That amounts
     made available under this heading may not be transferred 
     pursuant to section 205 of this Act.
           salaries and expenses, community relations service
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
     $15,500,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of 
     this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
     emergent circumstances require additional funding for 
     conflict resolution and violence prevention activities of the 
     Community Relations Service, the Attorney General may 
     transfer such amounts to the Community Relations Service, 
     from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
     the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
     such circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer 
     pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
     available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section.
                         assets forfeiture fund
       For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) 
     of section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, 
     $20,514,000, to be derived from the Department of Justice 
     Assets Forfeiture Fund.
                     United States Marshals Service
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals 
     Service, $1,377,409,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall 
     be available for official reception and representation 
     expenses, and not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended.
                              construction
       For construction in space controlled, occupied, or utilized 
     by the United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding 
     and related support, $35,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended.
                       federal prisoner detention
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners 
     in the custody of the United States Marshals Service as 
     authorized by section 4013 of title 18, United States Code, 
     $1,536,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be considered ``funds 
     appropriated for State and local law enforcement assistance'' 
     pursuant to section 4013(b) of title 18, United States Code: 
     Provided further, That the United States Marshals Service 
     shall be responsible for managing the Justice Prisoner and 
     Alien Transportation System.
                       National Security Division
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
     National Security Division, $101,369,000, of which not to 
     exceed $5,000,000 for information technology systems shall 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a determination 
     by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances require 
     additional funding for the activities of the National 
     Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
     amounts to this heading from available appropriations for the 
     current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be 
     necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided further, 
     That any transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be 
     treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except 
     in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
                      Interagency Law Enforcement
                 interagency crime and drug enforcement
       For necessary expenses for the identification, 
     investigation, and prosecution of individuals associated with 
     the most significant drug trafficking organizations, 
     transnational organized crime, and money laundering 
     organizations not otherwise provided for, to include inter-
     governmental agreements with State and local law enforcement 
     agencies engaged in the investigation and prosecution of 
     individuals involved in transnational organized crime and 
     drug trafficking, $521,563,000, of which $50,000,000 shall 
     remain available until expended: Provided, That any amounts 
     obligated from appropriations under this heading may be used 
     under authorities available to the organizations reimbursed 
     from this appropriation.
                    Federal Bureau of Investigation
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation for detection, investigation, and prosecution 
     of crimes against the United States, $9,030,202,000, of which 
     not to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That not to exceed $184,500 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.
                              construction
       For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, 
     furniture, and information technology requirements, related 
     to construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities and 
     sites by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
     conversion, modification and extension of federally owned 
     buildings; preliminary planning and design of projects; and 
     operation and maintenance of secure work environment 
     facilities and secure networking capabilities; $385,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended.
                    Drug Enforcement Administration
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement 
     Administration, including not to exceed $70,000 to meet 
     unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character pursuant 
     to section 530C of title 28, United States Code; and expenses 
     for conducting drug education and training programs, 
     including travel and related expenses for participants in 
     such programs and the distribution of items of token value 
     that promote the goals of such programs, $2,234,133,000, of 
     which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended and not to exceed $90,000 shall be available for 
     official reception and representation expenses.
          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
     Firearms and Explosives, for training of State and local law 
     enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, including 
     training in connection with the training and acquisition of 
     canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; and 
     for provision of laboratory assistance to State and local law 
     enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
     $1,316,678,000, of which not to exceed $36,000 shall be for 
     official reception and representation expenses, not to exceed 
     $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' 
     fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United 
     States Code, and not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
     appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act 
     upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
     disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States 
     Code: Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
     investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations 
     for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under section 
     925(c) of title 18, United States Code: Provided further, 
     That no funds made available by this or any other Act may be 
     used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities of 
     the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to 
     other agencies or Departments.
                         Federal Prison System
                         salaries and expenses
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
     administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal 
     and correctional institutions, and for the provision of 
     technical assistance and advice on corrections related issues 
     to foreign governments, $7,256,280,000: Provided, That the 
     Attorney General may transfer to the Department of Health and 
     Human Services such amounts as may be necessary for direct 
     expenditures by that Department for medical relief for 
     inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions: 
     Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
     System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a 
     fiscal agent or fiscal intermediary claims processor to 
     determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of 
     the Federal Prison System, furnish health services to 
     individuals committed to the custody of the Federal Prison 
     System: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses: 
     Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain 
     available for necessary operations until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided further, That, of the amounts provided for contract 
     confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available 
     until expended to make payments in advance for grants, 
     contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other expenses: 
     Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
     System may accept donated property and services relating to 
     the operation of the prison card program from a not-for-
     profit entity which has operated such program in the past, 
     notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-profit entity 
     furnishes services under contracts to the Federal Prison 
     System relating to the operation of pre-release services, 
     halfway houses, or other custodial facilities.
                        buildings and facilities
       For planning, acquisition of sites, and construction of new 
     facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and 
     remodeling, and equipping of such facilities for penal and 
     correctional use, including all necessary expenses incident 
     thereto, by contract or force account; and constructing, 
     remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and facilities 
     at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
     all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force 
     account, $274,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
     which $175,000,000 shall be available only for costs related 
     to construction of new facilities: Provided, That labor of 
     United States prisoners may be used for work performed under 
     this appropriation.
                federal prison industries, incorporated
       The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby 
     authorized to make such expenditures within the limits of 
     funds and borrowing authority available, and in accord with 
     the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
     regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 
     of title 31, United States Code, as may be necessary in 
     carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
     current fiscal year for such corporation.
  
   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated
       Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
     Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its 
     administrative expenses, and for services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, to be computed 
     on an accrual basis to be determined in accordance with the 
     corporation's current prescribed accounting system, and such 
     amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
     claims, and expenditures which such accounting system 
     requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities 
     acquired or produced, including selling and shipping 
     expenses, and expenses in connection with acquisition, 
     construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
     protection, or disposition of facilities and other property 
     belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.
               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities
                    Office on Violence Against Women
       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance for the prevention and prosecution of violence 
     against women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (``the 
     1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
     Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the 
     Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) 
     (``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other 
     Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 
     (Public Law 108-21); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
     Prevention Act of 1974 (34 U.S.C. 11101 et seq.) (``the 1974 
     Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection 
     Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); the 
     Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
     Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
     Act''); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 
     2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and the Rape 
     Survivor Child Custody Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22) (``the 
     2015 Act''); and for related victims services, $497,500,000, 
     to remain available until expended, which shall be derived by 
     transfer from amounts available for obligation in this Act 
     from the Fund established by section 1402 of chapter XIV of 
     title II of Public Law 98-473 (34 U.S.C. 20101), 
     notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, and 
     merged with the amounts otherwise made available under this 
     heading: Provided, That except as otherwise provided by law, 
     not to exceed 5 percent of funds made available under this 
     heading may be used for expenses related to evaluation, 
     training, and technical assistance: Provided further, That of 
     the amount provided--
       (1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
     women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act;
       (2) $36,000,000 is for transitional housing assistance 
     grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
     stalking, or sexual assault as authorized by section 40299 of 
     the 1994 Act;
       (3) $3,000,000 is for the National Institute of Justice for 
     research and evaluation of violence against women and related 
     issues addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence 
     Against Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, 
     Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by the Office 
     of Justice Programs;
       (4) $11,000,000 is for a grant program to provide services 
     to advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic 
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
     assistance to children and youth exposed to such violence; 
     programs to engage men and youth in preventing such violence; 
     and assistance to middle and high school students through 
     education and other services related to such violence: 
     Provided, That unobligated balances available for the 
     programs authorized by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 
     41305 of the 1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013 
     Act, shall be available for this program: Provided further, 
     That 10 percent of the total amount available for this grant 
     program shall be available for grants under the program 
     authorized by section 2015 of the 1968 Act: Provided further, 
     That the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of 
     the 1994 Act shall apply to this program;
       (5) $53,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest policies 
     as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 
     is for a homicide reduction initiative;
       (6) $37,500,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, 
     as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
       (7) $42,000,000 is for rural domestic violence and child 
     abuse enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 
     40295 of the 1994 Act;
       (8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent crimes 
     against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of the 
     2005 Act;
       (9) $45,000,000 is for legal assistance for victims, as 
     authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
       (10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and services to 
     end violence against and abuse of women in later life, as 
     authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 Act;
       (11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
     justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 
     Act: Provided, That unobligated balances available for the 
     programs authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and 
     section 41002 of the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by 
     the 2013 Act, shall be available for this program;
       (12) $6,000,000 is for education and training to end 
     violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
     authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
       (13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
     Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, 
     as authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
       (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
     against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 
     of the 2005 Act: Provided, That such funds may be transferred 
     to ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration 
     by the Office of Justice Programs;
       (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that provides 
     training and technical assistance on issues relating to 
     sexual assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women;
       (16) $4,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal governments 
     in exercising special domestic violence criminal 
     jurisdiction, as authorized by section 904 of the 2013 Act: 
     Provided, That the grant conditions in section 40002(b) of 
     the 1994 Act shall apply to this program; and
       (17) $1,500,000 for the purposes authorized under the 2015 
     Act.
                       Office of Justice Programs
                  research, evaluation and statistics
       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
     and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Juvenile 
     Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 
     Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 
     11291 et seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to 
     end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public 
     Law 108-21); the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
     405); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
     Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
     Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 
     101-647); the Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); 
     the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the 
     Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public 
     Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our 
     Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401); subtitle D of 
     title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 
     107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the NICS Improvement Amendments 
     Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); the Violence Against Women 
     Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
     Act''); and other programs, $90,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, of which--
       (1) $48,000,000 is for criminal justice statistics 
     programs, and other activities, as authorized by part C of 
     title I of the 1968 Act, of which $5,000,000 is for a 
     nationwide incident-based crime statistics program; and
       (2) $42,000,000 is for research, development, and 
     evaluation programs, and other activities as authorized by 
     part B of title I of the 1968 Act and subtitle D of title II 
     of the 2002 Act, of which $4,000,000 is for research targeted 
     toward developing a better understanding of the domestic 
     radicalization phenomenon, and advancing evidence-based 
     strategies for effective intervention and prevention; 
     $1,000,000 is for research to study the root causes of school 
     violence to include the impact and effectiveness of grants 
     made under the STOP School Violence Act; $1,000,000 is for a 
     study to better protect children against online predatory 
     behavior as part of the National Juvenile Online 
     Victimization Studies (N-JOVS); and $3,000,000 is for a 
     national center for restorative justice.
               state and local law enforcement assistance
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
     Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
     Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
     1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 2004 
     (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
     109-164); the Violence Against Women and Department of 
     Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) 
     (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and 
     Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh 
     Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection 
     Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement 
     Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of 
     title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 
     107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Second Chance Act of 2007 
     (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources and 
     Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public 
     Law 110-403); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 
     98-473); the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime 
     Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008 (Public 
     Law 110-416); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act 
     of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); the 
     Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 
     114-198) (``CARA''); the Justice for All Reauthorization Act 
     of 2016 (Public Law 114-324); Kevin and Avonte's Law 
     (division Q of Public Law 115-141) (``Kevin and Avonte's 
     Law''); the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act of 2018 (title III 
     of division S of Public Law 115-141) (``the Keep Young 
     Athletes Safe Act''); the STOP School Violence Act of 2018 
     (title V of division S of Public Law 115-
     141) (``the STOP School Violence Act''); the Fix NICS Act of 
     2018 (title VI of division S of Public Law 115-141); and the 
     Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act of 
     2017 (H.R. 3249, as passed and amended by the Senate with SA 
     2245 on May 16, 2018) (``the Project Safe Neighborhoods 
     Act''); and other programs, $1,678,500,000, to remain 
     available until expended as follows--
       (1) $445,000,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
     Assistance Grant program as authorized by subpart 1 of part E 
     of title I of the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and 
     the special rules for Puerto Rico under section 505(g) of 
     title I of the 1968 Act shall not apply for purposes of this 
     Act), of which, notwithstanding such subpart 1, $12,000,000 
     is for the Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial Initiative on 
     Preventing Violence Against Law Enforcement Officer 
     Resilience and Survivability (VALOR), $10,000,000 is for an 
     initiative to support evidence-based policing, $10,000,000 is 
     for an initiative to enhance prosecutorial decision-making, 
     $2,400,000 is for the operationalization, maintenance and 
     expansion of the National Missing and Unidentified Persons 
     System, $2,500,000 is for an academic based training 
     initiative to improve police-based responses to people with 
     mental illness or developmental disabilities, $2,000,000 is 
     for a student loan repayment assistance program pursuant to 
     section 952 of Public Law 110-315, $15,500,000 is for prison 
     rape prevention and prosecution grants to states and units of 
     local government, and other programs, as authorized by the 
     Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79), 
     $2,000,000 is for a grant program authorized by Kevin and 
     Avonte's Law, and $3,000,000 is for a regional law 
     enforcement technology initiative;
       (2) $100,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
     Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)): 
     Provided, That no jurisdiction shall request compensation for 
     any cost greater than the actual cost for Federal immigration 
     and other detainees housed in State and local detention 
     facilities;
       (3) $85,000,000 for victim services programs for victims of 
     trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 
     106-386, for programs authorized under Public Law 109-164, or 
     programs authorized under Public Law 113-4;
       (4) $5,000,000 for the Capital Litigation Improvement Grant 
     Program, as authorized by section 426 of Public Law 108-405, 
     and for grants for wrongful conviction review;
       (5) $15,500,000 for economic, high technology, white 
     collar, and Internet crime prevention grants, including as 
     authorized by section 401 of Public Law 110-403, of which 
     $2,500,000 is for competitive grants that help State and 
     local law enforcement tackle intellectual property thefts, 
     and $2,000,000 for a competitive grant program for training 
     students in computer forensics and digital investigation;
       (6) $20,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
     authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities;
       (7) $25,000,000 for the matching grant program for law 
     enforcement armor vests, as authorized by section 2501 of 
     title I of the 1968 Act: Provided, That $1,500,000 is 
     transferred directly to the National Institute of Standards 
     and Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards for 
     research, testing and evaluation programs;
       (8) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender Public 
     Website;
       (9) $75,000,000 for grants to States to upgrade criminal 
     and mental health records for the National Instant Criminal 
     Background Check System, of which no less than $25,000,000 
     shall be for grants made under the authorities of the NICS 
     Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180) and 
     Fix NICS Act of 2018;
       (10) $35,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences 
     Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of the 1968 Act;
       (11) $132,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic programs and 
     activities, of which--
       (A) $121,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and capacity 
     enhancement program and for other local, State, and Federal 
     forensic activities, including the purposes authorized under 
     section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 
     (Public Law 106-546) (the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant 
     Program): Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made 
     available under this paragraph may be used for the purposes 
     described in the DNA Training and Education for Law 
     Enforcement, Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers 
     program (Public Law 108-405, section 303);
       (B) $7,000,000 is for the purposes described in the Kirk 
     Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant Program (Public 
     Law 108-405, section 412); and
       (C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam Program 
     grants, including as authorized by section 304 of Public Law 
     108-405;
       (12) $50,000,000 for a grant program for community-based 
     sexual assault response reform;
       (13) $12,000,000 for the court-appointed special advocate 
     program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 Act;
       (14) $50,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes;
       (15) $90,000,000 for offender reentry programs and 
     research, as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 
     (Public Law 110-199), without regard to the time limitations 
     specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which not to exceed 
     $6,000,000 is for a program to improve State, local, and 
     tribal probation or parole supervision efforts and 
     strategies, $5,000,000 is for Children of Incarcerated 
     Parents Demonstrations to enhance and maintain parental and 
     family relationships for incarcerated parents as a reentry or 
     recidivism reduction strategy, and $4,000,000 is for 
     additional replication sites employing the Project HOPE 
     Opportunity Probation with Enforcement model implementing 
     swift and certain sanctions in probation, and for a research 
     project on the effectiveness of the model: Provided, That up 
     to $7,500,000 of funds made available in this paragraph may 
     be used for performance-based awards for Pay for Success 
     projects, of which up to $5,000,000 shall be for Pay for 
     Success programs implementing the Permanent Supportive 
     Housing Model;
       (16) $360,000,000 for comprehensive opioid abuse reduction 
     activities, including as authorized by CARA, and for the 
     following programs, which shall address opioid abuse 
     reduction consistent with underlying program authorities--
       (A) $80,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by section 
     1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
       (B) $32,500,000 for mental health courts and adult and 
     juvenile collaboration program grants, as authorized by parts 
     V and HH of title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill 
     Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and 
     Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416);
       (C) $35,000,000 for grants for Residential Substance Abuse 
     Treatment for State Prisoners, as authorized by part S of 
     title I of the 1968 Act;
       (D) $22,500,000 for a veterans treatment courts program;
       (E) $30,000,000 for a program to monitor prescription drugs 
     and scheduled listed chemical products; and
       (F) $160,000,000 for a comprehensive opioid abuse program;
       (17) $28,000,000 is for a justice reinvestment initiative, 
     for activities related to criminal justice reform and 
     recidivism reduction;
       (18) $22,500,000 is for a competitive matching grant 
     program for purchases of body-worn cameras for State, local 
     and Tribal law enforcement;
       (19) $2,500,000 is for a competitive grant program 
     authorized by the Keep Young Athletes Safe Act;
       (20) $75,000,000 is for grants to be administered by the 
     Bureau of Justice Assistance for purposes authorized under 
     the STOP School Violence Act; and
       (21) $50,000,000 is for competitive and evidence-based 
     programs to reduce gun crime and gang violence, as authorized 
     by the Project Safe Neighborhoods Act, of which--
       (A) $20,000,000 is for an Edward Byrne Memorial criminal 
     justice innovation program;
       (B) $5,000,000 is for gang and youth violence education, 
     prevention and intervention, and related activities; and
       (C) $8,000,000 is for community-based violence prevention 
     initiatives:
      Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of 
     the funds made available under this heading to increase the 
     number of law enforcement officers, the unit of local 
     government will achieve a net gain in the number of law 
     enforcement officers who perform non-administrative public 
     sector safety service.
                       juvenile justice programs
       For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
     assistance authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
     Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Omnibus Crime 
     Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the 
     Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
     Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
     Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 
     11291 et seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to 
     end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public 
     Law 108-21); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public 
     Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child 
     Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the 
     Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-401); the Violence Against Women 
     Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
     Act''); the Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 
     (Public Law 114-324); and other juvenile justice programs, 
     $297,000,000, to remain available until expended as follows--
       (1) $66,000,000 for programs authorized by section 221 of 
     the 1974 Act, and for training and technical assistance to 
     assist small, nonprofit organizations with the Federal grants 
     process: Provided, That of the amounts provided under this 
     paragraph, $500,000 shall be for a competitive demonstration 
     grant program to support emergency planning among State, 
     local and tribal juvenile justice residential facilities;
       (2) $94,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
       (3) $30,500,000 for delinquency prevention, as authorized 
     by section 505 of the 1974 Act, of which, pursuant to 
     sections 261 and 262 thereof--
       (A) $7,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth Program;
       (B) $500,000 shall be for an Internet site providing 
     information and resources on children of incarcerated 
     parents;
       (C) $2,000,000 shall be for competitive grants focusing on 
     girls in the juvenile justice system;
       (D) $10,000,000 shall be for an opioid-affected youth 
     initiative;
       (E) $11,000,000 shall be for an initiative relating to 
     children exposed to violence;
       (4) $25,000,000 for programs authorized by the Victims of 
     Child Abuse Act of 1990;
       (5) $76,000,000 for missing and exploited children 
     programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 
     405(a) of the 1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of 
     the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) 
     shall not apply for purposes of this Act);
       (6) $3,500,000 for child abuse training programs for 
     judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by 
     section 222 of the 1990 Act; and
       (7) $2,000,000 for a program to improve juvenile indigent 
     defense:
      Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may 
     be used for research, evaluation, and statistics activities 
     designed to benefit the programs or activities authorized: 
     Provided further, That not more than 2 percent of the amounts 
     designated under paragraphs (1) through (3) and (6) may be 
     used for training and technical assistance: Provided further, 
     That the two preceding provisos shall not apply to grants and 
     projects administered pursuant to sections 261 and 262 of the 
     1974 Act and to missing and exploited children programs.
                     public safety officer benefits
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For payments and expenses authorized under section 
     1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968, such sums as are necessary (including 
     amounts for administrative costs), to remain available until 
     expended; and $24,800,000 for payments authorized by section 
     1201(b) of such Act and for educational assistance authorized 
     by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this 
     Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
     emergent circumstances require additional funding for such 
     disability and education payments, the Attorney General may 
     transfer such amounts to ``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' 
     from available appropriations for the Department of Justice 
     as may be necessary to respond to such circumstances: 
     Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the preceding 
     proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
     of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
     expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
     forth in that section.
                  Community Oriented Policing Services
             community oriented policing services programs
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and 
     Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus 
     Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 
     Act''); and the Violence Against Women and Department of 
     Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) 
     (``the 2005 Act''), $310,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That any balances made available through 
     prior year deobligations shall only be available in 
     accordance with section 505 of this Act: Provided further, 
     That of the amount provided under this heading--
       (1) $235,000,000 is for grants under section 1701 of title 
     I of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381) for the hiring and 
     rehiring of additional career law enforcement officers under 
     part Q of such title notwithstanding subsection (i) of such 
     section: Provided, That, notwithstanding section 1704(c) of 
     such title (34 U.S.C. 10384(c)), funding for hiring or 
     rehiring a career law enforcement officer may not exceed 
     $125,000 unless the Director of the Office of Community 
     Oriented Policing Services grants a waiver from this 
     limitation: Provided further, That within the amounts 
     appropriated under this paragraph, $27,000,000 is for 
     improving tribal law enforcement, including hiring, 
     equipment, training, anti-methamphetamine activities, and 
     anti-opioid activities: Provided further, That of the amounts 
     appropriated under this paragraph, $10,000,000 is for 
     community policing development activities in furtherance of 
     the purposes in section 1701: Provided further, That of the 
     amounts appropriated under this paragraph $37,000,000 is for 
     regional information sharing activities, as authorized by 
     part M of title I of the 1968 Act, which shall be transferred 
     to and merged with ``Research, Evaluation, and Statistics'' 
     for administration by the Office of Justice Programs: 
     Provided further, That within the amounts appropriated under 
     this paragraph, no less than $3,000,000 is to support the 
     Tribal Access Program: Provided further, That within the 
     amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $2,000,000 is for 
     training, peer mentoring, and mental health program 
     activities as authorized under the Law Enforcement Mental 
     Health and Wellness Act (Public Law 115-113);
       (2) $10,000,000 is for activities authorized by the POLICE 
     Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-199);
       (3) $8,000,000 is for competitive grants to State law 
     enforcement agencies in States with high seizures of 
     precursor chemicals, finished methamphetamine, laboratories, 
     and laboratory dump seizures: Provided, That funds 
     appropriated under this paragraph shall be utilized for 
     investigative purposes to locate or investigate illicit 
     activities, including precursor diversion, laboratories, or 
     methamphetamine traffickers;
       (4) $32,000,000 is for competitive grants to statewide law 
     enforcement agencies in States with high rates of primary 
     treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids: Provided, 
     That these funds shall be utilized for investigative purposes 
     to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
     activities related to the distribution of heroin or unlawful 
     distribution of prescription opioids, or unlawful heroin and 
     prescription opioid traffickers through statewide 
     collaboration; and
       (5) $25,000,000 is for competitive grants to be 
     administered by the Community Oriented Policing Services 
     Office for purposes authorized under the STOP School Violence 
     Act (title V of division S of Public Law 115-141).
               General Provisions--Department of Justice
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 201. In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
     in this title for official reception and representation 
     expenses, a total of not to exceed $50,000 from funds 
     appropriated to the Department of Justice in this title shall 
     be available to the Attorney General for official reception 
     and representation expenses.
       Sec. 202. None of the funds appropriated by this title 
     shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
     life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were 
     carried to term, or in the case of rape or incest: Provided, 
     That should this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by 
     a court of competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null 
     and void.
       Sec. 203. None of the funds appropriated under this title 
     shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
     in any way the performance of, any abortion.
       Sec. 204. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
     obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to 
     provide escort services necessary for a female inmate to 
     receive such service outside the Federal facility: Provided, 
     That nothing in this section in any way diminishes the effect 
     of section 203 intended to address the philosophical beliefs 
     of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
       Sec. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
     available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
     Justice in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
     otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
     than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any 
     transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section.
       Sec. 206. None of the funds made available under this title 
     may be used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons or the United 
     States Marshals Service for the purpose of transporting an 
     individual who is a prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime 
     under State or Federal law and is classified as a maximum or 
     high security prisoner, other than to a prison or other 
     facility certified by the Federal Bureau of Prisons as 
     appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.
       Sec. 207. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television 
     services, or to rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic 
     media or equipment used primarily for recreational purposes.
       (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, 
     maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic media 
     or equipment for inmate training, religious, or educational 
     programs.
       Sec. 208. None of the funds made available under this title 
     shall be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced 
     information technology program having total estimated 
     development costs in excess of $100,000,000, unless the 
     Deputy Attorney General and the investment review board 
     certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate that the information 
     technology program has appropriate program management 
     controls and contractor oversight mechanisms in place, and 
     that the program is compatible with the enterprise 
     architecture of the Department of Justice.
       Sec. 209. The notification thresholds and procedures set 
     forth in section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations 
     from the amounts designated for specific activities in this 
     Act, and to any use of deobligated balances of funds provided 
     under this title in previous years.
       Sec. 210. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
     used to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or 
     approve a public-private competition under the Office of 
     Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any successor 
     administrative regulation, directive, or policy for work 
     performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal 
     Prison Industries, Incorporated.
       Sec. 211. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     funds shall be available for the salary, benefits, or 
     expenses of any United States Attorney assigned dual or 
     additional responsibilities by the Attorney General or his 
     designee that exempt that United States Attorney from the 
     residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, United 
     States Code.
       Sec. 212. At the discretion of the Attorney General, and in 
     addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or 
     authorized to be made available) by law, with respect to 
     funds appropriated by this title under the headings 
     ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', ``State and Local 
     Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
     Programs''--
       (1) up to 3 percent of funds made available to the Office 
     of Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may 
     be used by such Office to provide training and technical 
     assistance; and
       (2) up to 2 percent of funds made available for grant or 
     reimbursement programs under
     such headings, except for amounts appropriated specifically 
     for research, evaluation, or statistical programs 
     administered by the National Institute of Justice and the 
     Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall be transferred to and 
     merged with funds provided to the National Institute of 
     Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to be used by 
     them for research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, 
     without regard to the authorizations for such grant or 
     reimbursement programs.
       Sec. 213. Upon request by a grantee for whom the Attorney 
     General has determined there is a fiscal hardship, the 
     Attorney General may, with respect to funds appropriated in 
     this or any other Act making appropriations for fiscal years 
     2016 through 2019 for the following programs, waive the 
     following requirements:
       (1) For the adult and juvenile offender State and local 
     reentry demonstration projects under part FF of title I of 
     the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 
     U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), the requirements under section 
     2976(g)(1) of such part (34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).
       (2) For State, Tribal, and local reentry courts under part 
     FF of title I of such Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), 
     the requirements under section 2978(e)(1) and (2) of such 
     part (34 U.S.C. 10633(e)(1) and (2)).
       (3) For the prosecution drug treatment alternatives to 
     prison program under part CC of title I of such Act of 1968 
     (34 U.S.C. 10581), the requirements under the second sentence 
     of section 2901(f) of such part (34 U.S.C. 10581(f)).
       Sec. 214. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     section 20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent 
     Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 
     12109(a)) shall not apply to amounts made available by this 
     or any other Act.
       Sec. 215. None of the funds made available under this Act, 
     other than for the national instant criminal background check 
     system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun 
     Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901), may be used by a 
     Federal law enforcement officer to facilitate the transfer of 
     an operable firearm to an individual if the Federal law 
     enforcement officer knows or suspects that the individual is 
     an agent of a drug cartel, unless law enforcement personnel 
     of the United States continuously monitor or control the 
     firearm at all times.
       Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the Department 
     of Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public 
     Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be 
     available for obligation during fiscal year 2019, except up 
     to $40,000,000 may be obligated for implementation of a 
     unified Department of Justice financial management system.
       (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
     transferred to the capital account of the Department of 
     Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public 
     Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be 
     available for obligation in fiscal year 2019, and any use, 
     obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds shall be 
     treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
     Act.
       (c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess unobligated 
     balances available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, 
     United States Code, shall be available for obligation during 
     fiscal year 2019, and any use, obligation, transfer or 
     allocation of such funds shall be treated as a reprogramming 
     of funds under section 505 of this Act.
       Sec. 217. Discretionary funds that are made available in 
     this Act for the Office of Justice Programs may be used to 
     participate in Performance Partnership Pilots authorized 
     under section 526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, section 
     524 of division G of Public Law 113-235, section 525 of 
     division H of Public Law 114-113, and such authorities as are 
     enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots in an 
     appropriations Act for fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
       This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
     Appropriations Act, 2019''.
                               TITLE III
                                SCIENCE
                Office of Science and Technology Policy
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and 
     Technology Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the 
     National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and 
     Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to exceed 
     $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, 
     and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
     $5,544,000.
                         National Space Council
       For necessary expenses of the National Space Council, in 
     carrying out the purposes of Title V of Public Law 100-685 
     and Executive Order 13803, hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
     and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
     States Code, not to exceed $2,250 for official reception and 
     representation expenses, $1,965,000: Provided, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National 
     Space Council may accept personnel support from Federal 
     agencies, departments, and offices, and such Federal 
     agencies, departments, and offices may detail staff without 
     reimbursement to the National Space Council for purposes 
     provided herein.
             National Aeronautics and Space Administration
                                science
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of science research and development 
     activities, including research, development, operations, 
     support, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
     communications activities; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
     and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $6,400,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That the formulation and development costs (with 
     development cost as defined under section 30104 of title 51, 
     United States Code) for the James Webb Space Telescope shall 
     not exceed $8,000,000,000: Provided further, That should the 
     individual identified under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 
     30104 of title 51, United States Code, as responsible for the 
     James Webb Space Telescope determine that the development 
     cost of the program is likely to exceed that limitation, the 
     individual shall immediately notify the Administrator and the 
     increase shall be treated as if it meets the 30 percent 
     threshold described in subsection (f) of section 30104.
                              aeronautics
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of aeronautics research and development 
     activities, including research, development, operations, 
     support, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
     communications activities; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
     and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $725,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.
                            space technology
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of space technology research and 
     development activities, including research, development, 
     operations, support, and services; maintenance and repair, 
     facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
     control, and communications activities; program management; 
     personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances 
     therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, 
     United States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
     maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
     aircraft, $932,800,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020: Provided, That $180,000,000 shall be for RESTORE.
                              exploration
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of exploration research and development 
     activities, including research, development, operations, 
     support, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; space flight, spacecraft control, and 
     communications activities; program management; personnel and 
     related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
     authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
     States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
     and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
     $5,338,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That not less than $1,350,000,000 shall be for the 
     Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle: Provided further, That not 
     less than $2,150,000,000 shall be for the Space Launch System 
     (SLS) launch vehicle, which shall have a lift capability not 
     less than 130 metric tons and which shall have core elements 
     and an Exploration Upper Stage developed simultaneously: 
     Provided further, That $795,000,000 shall be for Exploration 
     Ground Systems, including $255,000,000 for a second mobile 
     launch platform and associated SLS activities: Provided 
     further, That the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration (NASA) shall provide to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, concurrent with the annual budget submission, a 5-
     year budget profile for an integrated system that includes 
     the Space Launch System, the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew 
     Vehicle, and associated ground systems that will ensure an 
     Exploration Mission-2 crewed launch as early as possible, as 
     well as a system-based funding profile for a sustained launch 
     cadence beyond the initial crewed test launch: Provided 
     further, That acquisition of Orion crew vehicles, SLS launch 
     vehicles, Exploration Ground Systems, mobile launch 
     platforms, and their associated components may be funded 
     incrementally in fiscal year 2019 and thereafter: Provided 
     further, That $1,043,700,000 shall be for exploration 
     research and development.
                            space operations
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of space operations research and 
     development activities, including research, development, 
     operations, support and services; space flight, spacecraft 
     control and communications activities, including operations, 
     production, and services; maintenance and repair, facility 
     planning and design; program
     management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms 
     or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 
     5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; 
     purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
     lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
     administrative aircraft, $4,639,100,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020.
    science, technology, engineering, and mathematics opportunities
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of aerospace and aeronautical education 
     research and development activities, including research, 
     development, operations, support, and services; program 
     management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms 
     or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 
     5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; 
     purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
     lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
     administrative aircraft, $110,000,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020, of which $21,000,000 shall be for 
     the Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and 
     $44,000,000 shall be for the National Space Grant College and 
     Fellowship Program.
                 safety, security and mission services
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
     conduct and support of science, aeronautics, space 
     technology, exploration, space operations and education 
     research and development activities, including research, 
     development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
     and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
     spacecraft control, and communications activities; program 
     management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms 
     or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 
     5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; 
     purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed 
     $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
     and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
     mission and administrative aircraft, $2,750,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020.
       construction and environmental compliance and restoration
       For necessary expenses for construction of facilities 
     including repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and 
     modification of facilities, construction of new facilities 
     and additions to existing facilities, facility planning and 
     design, and restoration, and acquisition or condemnation of 
     real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
     compliance and restoration, $388,200,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2024: Provided, That proceeds from leases 
     deposited into this account shall be available for a period 
     of 5 years to the extent and in amounts as provided in annual 
     appropriations Acts: Provided further, That such proceeds 
     referred to in the preceding proviso shall be available for 
     obligation for fiscal year 2019 in an amount not to exceed 
     $9,470,300: Provided further, That each annual budget request 
     shall include an annual estimate of gross receipts and 
     collections and proposed use of all funds collected pursuant 
     to section 20145 of title 51, United States Code.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     $39,300,000, of which $500,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
                       administrative provisions
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Funds for any announced prize otherwise authorized shall 
     remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until a 
     prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
       Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available 
     for the current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration in this Act may be transferred between 
     such appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
     otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
     than 10 percent by any such transfers. Balances so 
     transferred shall be merged with and available for the same 
     purposes and the same time period as the appropriations to 
     which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to this provision 
     shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
     505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
     except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
     section.
       The spending plan required by this Act shall be provided by 
     NASA at the theme, program, project and activity level. The 
     spending plan, as well as any subsequent change of an amount 
     established in that spending plan that meets the notification 
     requirements of section 505 of this Act, shall be treated as 
     a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not 
     be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
     compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
                      National Science Foundation
                    research and related activities
       For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
     Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public 
     Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized 
     by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; maintenance 
     and operation of aircraft and purchase of flight services for 
     research support; acquisition of aircraft; and authorized 
     travel; $6,556,183,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, of which not to exceed $544,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended for polar research and operations 
     support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
     operational and science support and logistical and other 
     related activities for the United States Antarctic program: 
     Provided, That receipts for scientific support services and 
     materials furnished by the National Research Centers and 
     other National Science Foundation supported research 
     facilities may be credited to this appropriation.
          major research equipment and facilities construction
       For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
     commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, 
     facilities, and other such capital assets pursuant to the 
     National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et 
     seq.), including authorized travel, $249,254,000, to remain 
     available until expended.
                     education and human resources
       For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics 
     and engineering education and human resources programs and 
     activities pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 
     1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including services as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms in the 
     District of Columbia, $915,000,000, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
                 agency operations and award management
       For agency operations and award management necessary in 
     carrying out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 
     U.S.C. 1861 et seq.); services authorized by section 3109 of 
     title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
     sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; rental 
     of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; and 
     reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for 
     security guard services; $328,510,000: Provided, That not to 
     exceed $8,280 is for official reception and representation 
     expenses: Provided further, That contracts may be entered 
     into under this heading in fiscal year 2019 for maintenance 
     and operation of facilities and for other services to be 
     provided during the next fiscal year.
                  office of the national science board
       For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
     authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the 
     rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, and 
     the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
     of title 5, United States Code) involved in carrying out 
     section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 
     U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
     $4,370,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
     available for official reception and representation expenses.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     as authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
     $15,350,000, of which $400,000 shall remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
                       administrative provisions
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available 
     for the current fiscal year for the National Science 
     Foundation in this Act may be transferred between such 
     appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased 
     by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any transfer 
     pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation except in compliance 
     with the procedures set forth in that section.
       The Director of the National Science Foundation shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate at least 30 days in advance of 
     the acquisition or disposal of any capital asset (including 
     land, structures, and equipment) not specifically provided 
     for in this Act or any other law appropriating funds for the 
     National Science Foundation.
       This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations 
     Act, 2019''.
                                TITLE IV
                            RELATED AGENCIES
                       Commission on Civil Rights
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, 
     including hire of passenger motor vehicles, $10,065,000: 
     Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
     paragraph may be used to employ any individuals under 
     Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of 
     Federal Regulations exclusive of one special assistant for 
     each Commissioner: Provided further, That none of the funds 
     appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to reimburse 
     Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, with the 
     exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable 
     days: Provided further, That the Chair may accept and use any 
     gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
     paragraph shall be used for any activity or expense that is 
     not explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil Rights 
     Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).
  
                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
     Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
     of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 
     the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Americans with Disabilities 
     Act of 1990, section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 
     the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic Information 
     Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
     the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the 
     Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), 
     including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
     United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
     authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, United States 
     Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
     $29,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement 
     agencies for authorized services to the Commission, 
     $379,500,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to 
     make available for official reception and representation 
     expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds: Provided 
     further, That the Commission may take no action to implement 
     any workforce repositioning, restructuring, or reorganization 
     until such time as the Committees on Appropriations of the 
     House of Representatives and the Senate have been notified of 
     such proposals, in accordance with the reprogramming 
     requirements of section 505 of this Act: Provided further, 
     That the Chair is authorized to accept and use any gift or 
     donation to carry out the work of the Commission.
                     International Trade Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the International Trade 
     Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
     services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
     States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 for official reception 
     and representation expenses, $95,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended.
                       Legal Services Corporation
               payment to the legal services corporation
       For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out 
     the purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, 
     $410,000,000, of which $376,000,000 is for basic field 
     programs and required independent audits; $5,100,000 is for 
     the Office of Inspector General, of which such amounts as may 
     be necessary may be used to conduct additional audits of 
     recipients; $19,400,000 is for management and grants 
     oversight; $4,000,000 is for client self-help and information 
     technology; $4,500,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and 
     $1,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance: Provided, That 
     the Legal Services Corporation may continue to provide 
     locality pay to officers and employees at a rate no greater 
     than that provided by the Federal Government to Washington, 
     DC-based employees as authorized by section 5304 of title 5, 
     United States Code, notwithstanding section 1005(d) of the 
     Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)): Provided 
     further, That the authorities provided in section 205 of this 
     Act shall be applicable to the Legal Services Corporation: 
     Provided further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of 
     this Act, the Legal Services Corporation shall be considered 
     an agency of the United States Government.
          administrative provision--legal services corporation
       None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
     Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose 
     prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any of the 
     provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of 
     Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this Act to 
     the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same 
     terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that 
     all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall 
     be deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, respectively.
                        Marine Mammal Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
     authorized by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 
     1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $4,200,000.
            Office of the United States Trade Representative
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States 
     Trade Representative, including the hire of passenger motor 
     vehicles and the employment of experts and consultants as 
     authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     $57,600,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That of the total amount made available 
     under this heading, not to exceed $124,000 shall be available 
     for official reception and representation expenses.
                      trade enforcement trust fund
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For activities of the United States Trade Representative 
     authorized by section 611 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade 
     Enforcement Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including 
     transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived from the Trade 
     Enforcement Trust Fund: Provided, That any transfer pursuant 
     to subsection (d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming under section 505 of this Act.
                        State Justice Institute
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
     authorized by the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 
     U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) $6,121,000, of which $500,000 shall 
     remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That not 
     to exceed $2,250 shall be available for official reception 
     and representation expenses: Provided further, That, for the 
     purposes of section 505 of this Act, the State Justice 
     Institute shall be considered an agency of the United States 
     Government.
                                TITLE V
                           GENERAL PROVISIONS
                        (including rescissions)
                     (including transfer of funds)
       Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not 
     authorized by the Congress.
       Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current 
     fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 503. The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
     Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
     pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
     shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
     are a matter of public record and available for public 
     inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing 
     law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
     existing law.
       Sec. 504. If any provision of this Act or the application 
     of such provision to any person or circumstances shall be 
     held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of 
     each provision to persons or circumstances other than those 
     as to which it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby.
       Sec. 505. None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
     provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies 
     funded by this Act that remain available for obligation or 
     expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any 
     accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
     collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this 
     Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through 
     a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new 
     program, project or activity; (2) eliminates a program, 
     project or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any 
     means for any project or activity for which funds have been 
     denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; 
     (5) reorganizes or renames offices, programs or activities; 
     (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees; (7) augments 
     existing programs, projects or activities in excess of 
     $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 
     percent funding for any program, project or activity, or 
     numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or (8) results from any 
     general savings, including savings from a reduction in 
     personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
     programs, projects or activities as approved by Congress; 
     unless the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are 
     notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
       Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court 
     or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a 
     label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any 
     inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or 
     shipped to the United States that is not made in the United 
     States, the person shall be ineligible to receive any 
     contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
     this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and 
     ineligibility procedures described in sections 9.400 through 
     9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
       (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to 
     authorized purchases of promotional items, funds made 
     available by this Act shall be used to purchase items that 
     are manufactured, produced, or assembled in the United 
     States, its territories or possessions.
       (2) The term ``promotional items'' has the meaning given 
     the term in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
       Sec. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
     National Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration shall provide to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     a quarterly report on the status of balances of 
     appropriations at the account level. For unobligated, 
     uncommitted balances and unobligated, committed balances the 
     quarterly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
     attributable to each source year of appropriation from which 
     the balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, 
     but unexpended, the quarterly reports shall separately 
     identify amounts by the year of obligation.
       (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
       (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any 
     aspect of a reporting requirement described in subsection (a) 
     due to a limitation of a current accounting system, the 
     department or agency shall fulfill such aspect to the maximum 
     extent practicable under such accounting system and shall 
     identify and describe in each quarterly report the extent to 
     which such aspect is not fulfilled.
       Sec. 508. Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
     funded under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, 
     personnel actions taken in response to funding reductions 
     included in this Act shall be absorbed within
     the total budgetary resources available to such department or 
     agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
     between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry 
     out this section is provided in addition to authorities 
     included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use of 
     funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
     shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except 
     in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: 
     Provided further, That for the Department of Commerce, this 
     section shall also apply to actions taken for the care and 
     protection of loan collateral or grant property.
       Sec. 509. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
     available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco 
     products, or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign 
     country of restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or 
     tobacco products, except for restrictions which are not 
     applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the 
     same type.
       Sec. 510. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     amounts deposited or available in the Fund established by 
     section 1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 
     (34 U.S.C. 20101) in any fiscal year in excess of 
     $3,353,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until 
     the following fiscal year: Provided, That notwithstanding 
     section 1402(d) of such Act, of the amounts available from 
     the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall remain 
     available until expended to the Department of Justice Office 
     of Inspector General for oversight and auditing purposes; and 
     (2) 5 percent shall be available to the Office for Victims of 
     Crime for grants, consistent with the requirements of the 
     Victims of Crime Act, to Indian tribes to improve services 
     for victims of crime.
       Sec. 511. None of the funds made available to the 
     Department of Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate 
     against or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of 
     students who participate in programs for which financial 
     assistance is provided from those funds, or of the parents or 
     legal guardians of such students.
       Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
     transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act 
     or any other appropriations Act.
       Sec. 513. (a) The Inspectors General of the Department of 
     Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics 
     and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, 
     and the Legal Services Corporation shall conduct audits, 
     pursuant to the Inspector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of 
     grants or contracts for which funds are appropriated by this 
     Act, and shall submit reports to Congress on the progress of 
     such audits, which may include preliminary findings and a 
     description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days 
     after initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter 
     until any such audit is completed.
       (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit 
     described in subsection (a) by an Inspector General is 
     completed, the Secretary, Attorney General, Administrator, 
     Director, or President, as appropriate, shall make the 
     results of the audit available to the public on the Internet 
     website maintained by the Department, Administration, 
     Foundation, or Corporation, respectively. The results shall 
     be made available in redacted form to exclude--
       (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 5, 
     United States Code; and
       (2) sensitive personal information for any individual, the 
     public access to which could be used to commit identity theft 
     or for other inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
       (c) Any person awarded a grant or contract funded by 
     amounts appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to 
     the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, the 
     Administrator, Director, or President, as appropriate, 
     certifying that no funds derived from the grant or contract 
     will be made available through a subcontract or in any other 
     manner to another person who has a financial interest in the 
     person awarded the grant or contract.
       (d) The provisions of the preceding subsections of this 
     section shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the 
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
     consultation with the Director of the Office of Government 
     Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules and 
     requirements, substantially similar to the requirements in 
     such subsections, consistently apply under the executive 
     branch ethics program to all Federal departments, agencies, 
     and entities.
       Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available under this Act may be used by the departments 
     and agencies funded in this Act to acquire telecommunications 
     equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company, ZTE 
     Corporation, or a high-impact or moderate-impact information 
     system, as defined for security categorization in the 
     National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) 
     Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 199, 
     ``Standards for Security Categorization of Federal 
     Information and Information Systems'' unless the agency has--
       (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
     systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
     acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
     information systems within the Federal Government;
       (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
     awardee against available and relevant threat information 
     provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and 
     other appropriate agencies; and
       (3) in consultation with the FBI or other appropriate 
     Federal entity, conducted an assessment of any risk of cyber-
     espionage or sabotage associated with the acquisition of such 
     system, including any risk associated with such system being 
     produced, manufactured, or assembled by one or more entities 
     identified by the United States Government as posing a cyber 
     threat, including but not limited to, those that may be 
     owned, directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of 
     China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's 
     Republic of Korea, or the Russian Federation.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact 
     or moderate-impact information system reviewed and assessed 
     under subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity 
     described in subsection (a) has--
       (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
     risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
     identified risks;
       (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the FBI, that 
     the acquisition of such system is in the vital national 
     security interest of the United States; and
       (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     in a manner that identifies the system intended for 
     acquisition and a detailed description of the mitigation 
     strategies identified in (1), provided that such report may 
     include a classified annex as necessary.
       Sec. 515. None of the funds made available in this Act 
     shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the 
     use of torture by any official or contract employee of the 
     United States Government.
       Sec. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
     treaty, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this Act or any other Act may be expended or 
     obligated by a department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
     United States to pay administrative expenses or to compensate 
     an officer or employee of the United States in connection 
     with requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
     components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms 
     listed in Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of 
     Federal Regulations (International Trafficking in Arms 
     Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April 1, 2005) 
     with a total value not exceeding $500 wholesale in any 
     transaction, provided that the conditions of subsection (b) 
     of this section are met by the exporting party for such 
     articles.
       (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export 
     license--
       (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
     Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
     from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
     States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
     enumerated in subsection (a); and
       (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
       (A) fully automatic firearms and components and parts for 
     such firearms, other than for end use by the Federal 
     Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
     Canada;
       (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or complete 
     breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in Category I, other 
     than for end use by the Federal Government, or a Provincial 
     or Municipal Government of Canada; or
       (C) articles for export from Canada to another foreign 
     destination.
       (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors 
     of Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or 
     temporary export without a license of any unclassified 
     articles specified in subsection (a) to Canada for end use in 
     Canada or return to the United States, or temporary import of 
     Canadian-origin items from Canada for end use in the United 
     States or return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
       (d) The President may require export licenses under this 
     section on a temporary basis if the President determines, 
     upon publication first in the Federal Register, that the 
     Government of Canada has implemented or maintained inadequate 
     import controls for the articles specified in subsection (a), 
     such that a significant diversion of such articles has and 
     continues to take place for use in international terrorism or 
     in the escalation of a conflict in another nation. The 
     President shall terminate the requirements of a license when 
     reasons for the temporary requirements have ceased.
       Sec. 517. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
     department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
     receiving appropriated funds under this Act or any other Act 
     shall obligate or expend in any way such funds to pay 
     administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or 
     employee of the United States to deny any application 
     submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified 
     pursuant to 27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to 
     import United States origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, 
     parts, or ammunition.
       Sec. 518. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade 
     agreement the text of--
       (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
     Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
       (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
     Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
       (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-
     Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
       Sec. 519. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to authorize or issue a national security letter in 
     contravention of any of the following laws authorizing the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue national security 
     letters: The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978; The 
     Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair 
     Credit Reporting Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA 
     PATRIOT Act; USA FREEDOM Act of 2015; and the laws amended by 
     these Acts.
       Sec. 520. If at any time during any quarter, the program 
     manager of a project within the jurisdiction of the 
     Departments of Commerce or Justice, the National Aeronautics 
     and Space Administration, or the National Science Foundation 
     totaling more than $75,000,000 has reasonable cause to 
     believe that the total program cost has increased by 10 
     percent or more, the program manager shall immediately inform 
     the respective Secretary, Administrator, or Director. The 
     Secretary, Administrator, or Director shall notify the House 
     and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 30 days in 
     writing of such increase, and shall include in such notice: 
     the date on which such determination was made; a statement of 
     the reasons for such increases; the action taken and proposed 
     to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
     changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and 
     the degree to which such changes have contributed to the 
     increase in total program costs or procurement costs; new 
     estimates of the total project or procurement costs; and a 
     statement validating that the project's management structure 
     is adequate to control total project or procurement costs.
       Sec. 521. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available 
     by the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or 
     intelligence related activities are deemed to be specifically 
     authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal 
     year 2019 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
     Authorization Act for fiscal year 2019.
       Sec. 522. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in 
     an amount greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in 
     excess of such amount unless the prospective contractor or 
     grantee certifies in writing to the agency awarding the 
     contract or grant that, to the best of its knowledge and 
     belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal tax 
     returns required during the three years preceding the 
     certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense 
     under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more 
     than 90 days prior to certification, been notified of any 
     unpaid Federal tax assessment for which the liability remains 
     unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the subject of an 
     installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been 
     approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in 
     default, or the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous 
     administrative or judicial proceeding.
                             (rescissions)
       Sec. 523. (a) Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
     appropriations available to the Department of Commerce, 
     Economic Development Administration, Economic Development 
     Assistance Programs, $10,000,000 is rescinded not later than 
     September 30, 2019.
       (b) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department 
     of Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not 
     later than September 30, 2019, from the following accounts in 
     the specified amounts--
       (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $175,000,000;
       (2) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and 
     Expenses'', $128,291,000 including from, but not limited to, 
     fees collected to defray expenses for the automation of 
     fingerprint identification and criminal justice information 
     services and associated costs;
       (3) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office on 
     Violence Against Women, Violence Against Women Prevention and 
     Prosecution Programs'', $10,000,000;
       (4) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office of 
     Justice Programs'', $40,000,000;
       (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Community 
     Oriented Policing Services'', $10,000,000; and
       (6) ``Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture Fund'', 
     $674,000,000, is permanently rescinded.
       (c) The Departments of Commerce and Justice shall submit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate a report no later than 
     September 1, 2019, specifying the amount of each rescission 
     made pursuant to subsections (a) and (b).
       (d) The amounts rescinded in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
     not be from amounts that were designated by the Congress as 
     an emergency or disaster relief requirement pursuant to the 
     concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
       Sec. 524. (a) Any unobligated balances identified in the 
     following Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbols are hereby 
     permanently cancelled: 80X0114; 80X0111; 80X0110; and 
     80X0112.
       (b) Upon enactment of this Act:
       (1) obligated balances in 80X0114 shall be transferred to 
     and merged with 80-0130, Construction and Environmental 
     Compliance and Restoration, and any upward adjustments to 
     such obligations may be made from 80-0130;
       (2) obligated balances in 80X0111 shall be transferred to 
     and merged with 80-0122, Safety, Security and Mission 
     Services, 80-0115, Space Flight Capabilities and 80-0130, 
     Construction and Environmental Compliance and Restoration, 
     and any upward adjustments to such obligations may be made 
     from 80-0122, 80-0115 and 80-0130;
       (3) obligated balances in 80X0110 shall be transferred to 
     and merged with 80-0130, Construction and Environmental 
     Compliance and Restoration, and any upward adjustments to 
     said obligations may be made from 80-0130; and
       (4) obligated balances in 80X0112 shall be transferred to 
     and merged with 80-0122, Safety, Security and Mission 
     Services and 80-0130, Construction and Environmental 
     Compliance and Restoration, and any upward adjustments to 
     such obligations may be made from 80-0122 and 80-0130.
       (c) Following the cancellation of unobligated balances and 
     transfer of obligated balances in 80X0114, 80X0111, 80X0110 
     and 80X0112, such accounts shall be closed. Any collections 
     authorized or required to be credited to these accounts that 
     are not received before closing of such accounts shall be 
     deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
       Sec. 525. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to purchase first class or premium airline travel in 
     contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of 
     title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
       Sec. 526. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
     than 50 employees from a Federal department or agency, who 
     are stationed in the United States, at any single conference 
     occurring outside the United States unless such conference is 
     a law enforcement training or operational conference for law 
     enforcement personnel and the majority of Federal employees 
     in attendance are law enforcement personnel stationed outside 
     the United States.
       Sec. 527. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in this Act may be used to transfer, release, or 
     assist in the transfer or release to or within the United 
     States, its territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh 
     Mohammed or any other detainee who--
       (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
     of Defense.
       Sec. 528. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
     made available in this Act may be used to construct, acquire, 
     or modify any facility in the United States, its territories, 
     or possessions to house any individual described in 
     subsection (c) for the purposes of detention or imprisonment 
     in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense.
       (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
     any modification of facilities at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
     individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United 
     States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
       (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
     the Armed Forces of the United States; and
       (2) is--
       (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
     Department of Defense; or
       (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
     Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
       Sec. 529. The Director of the Office of Management and 
     Budget shall instruct any department, agency, or 
     instrumentality of the United States receiving funds 
     appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed balances in 
     expired grant accounts and include in its annual performance 
     plan and performance and accountability reports the 
     following:
       (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
     instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
     expired grant accounts.
       (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
     instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
     grant accounts.
       (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
     accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
     States.
       (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on the total 
     number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed balances 
     (on the first day of each fiscal year) for the department, 
     agency, or instrumentality and the total finances that have 
     not been obligated to a specific project remaining in the 
     accounts.
       Sec. 530. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
     may be used for the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration (NASA) or the Office of Science and Technology 
     Policy (OSTP) to develop, design, plan, promulgate, 
     implement, or execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or 
     contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or 
     coordinate bilaterally in any way with China or any Chinese-
     owned company unless such activities are specifically 
     authorized by a law enacted after the date of enactment of 
     this Act.
       (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
     used to effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors 
     at facilities belonging to or utilized by NASA.
       (c) The limitations described in subsections (a) and (b) 
     shall not apply to activities which NASA or OSTP, after 
     consultation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have 
     certified--
       (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
     technology, data, or other information with national security 
     or economic security implications to China or a Chinese-owned 
     company; and
       (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials 
     who have been determined by the United States to have direct 
     involvement with violations of human rights.
       (d) Any certification made under subsection (c) shall be 
     submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation, no later than 30 days prior to the activity in 
     question and shall include a description of the purpose of 
     the activity, its agenda, its major participants, and its 
     location and timing.
       Sec. 531. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel to deny, 
     or fail to act on, an application for the importation of any 
     model of shotgun if--
       (1) all other requirements of law with respect to the 
     proposed importation are met; and
       (2) no application for the importation of such model of 
     shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by the 
     Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis that 
     the shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily 
     adaptable to sporting purposes.
       Sec. 532. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
     may be used to maintain or establish a computer network 
     unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and 
     exchanging of pornography.
       (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
     necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law 
     enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
     investigations, prosecution, adjudication, or other law 
     enforcement- or victim assistance-related activity.
       Sec. 533. The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National 
     Science Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal 
     Employment Opportunity Commission, the International Trade 
     Commission, the Legal Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal 
     Commission, the Offices of Science and Technology Policy and 
     the United States Trade Representative, the National Space 
     Council, and the State Justice Institute shall submit 
     spending plans, signed by the respective department or agency 
     head, to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives and the Senate within 45 days after the date 
     of enactment of this Act.
       Sec. 534. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty 
     until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for 
     the Treaty.
       Sec. 535. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to pay award or incentive 
     fees for contractors whose performance has been judged to be 
     below satisfactory, behind schedule, over budget, or has 
     failed to meet the basic requirements of a contract, unless 
     the Agency determines that any such deviations are due to 
     unforeseeable events, government-driven scope changes, or are 
     not significant within the overall scope of the project and/
     or program unless such awards or incentive fees are 
     consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
       Sec. 536. None of the funds made available by this Act may 
     be used in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of 
     Industrial Hemp Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 
     (Public Law 113-79) by the Department of Justice or the Drug 
     Enforcement Administration.
       Sec. 537. None of the funds made available under this Act 
     to the Department of Justice may be used, with respect to any 
     of the States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, 
     California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, 
     Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, 
     Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, 
     Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New 
     Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, 
     North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode 
     Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, 
     Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, 
     or with respect to the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto 
     Rico, to prevent any of them from implementing their own laws 
     that authorize the use, distribution, possession, or 
     cultivation of medical marijuana.
       This division may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, 
     Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019''.
   DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED 
                   PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
        That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
     in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other 
     purposes, namely:
                                TITLE I
                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY
                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE
                   Administration of Foreign Affairs
                          diplomatic programs
       For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the 
     Foreign Service not otherwise provided for, $5,944,440,000, 
     to remain available until September 30, 2020, of which up to 
     $1,441,777,000 may remain available until expended for 
     Worldwide Security Protection: Provided, That funds made 
     available under this heading shall be allocated in accordance 
     with paragraphs (1) through (4) as follows:
       (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for training, 
     human resources management, and salaries, including 
     employment without regard to civil service and classification 
     laws of persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed 
     $700,000), as authorized by section 801 of the United States 
     Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, 
     $2,916,794,000, of which up to $513,000,000 is for Worldwide 
     Security Protection.
       (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for the 
     regional bureaus of the Department of State and overseas 
     activities as authorized by law, $1,302,715,000.
       (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary expenses 
     for the functional bureaus of the Department of State, 
     including representation to certain international 
     organizations in which the United States participates 
     pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and 
     consent of the Senate or specific Acts of Congress, general 
     administration, and arms control, nonproliferation and 
     disarmament activities as authorized, $773,847,000.
       (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for security 
     activities, $951,084,000, of which up to $928,777,000 is for 
     Worldwide Security Protection.
       (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to amounts 
     otherwise made available under this heading--
       (A) as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
     Information and Educational Exchange Act, not to exceed 
     $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be 
     credited to this appropriation from fees or other payments 
     received from English teaching, library, motion pictures, and 
     publication programs and from fees from educational advising 
     and counseling and exchange visitor programs; and
       (B) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived from 
     reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House 
     facilities.
       (6) Transfer of funds, reprogramming, and other matters.--
       (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, funds 
     may be reprogrammed within and between paragraphs (1) through 
     (4) under this heading subject to section 7015 of this Act.
       (B) Of the amount made available under this heading, not to 
     exceed $10,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, 
     funds made available by this Act under the heading 
     ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'', to be 
     available only for emergency evacuations and rewards, as 
     authorized.
       (C) Funds appropriated under this heading are available for 
     acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor 
     vehicles as authorized by law and, pursuant to section 
     1108(g) of title 31, United States Code, for the field 
     examination of programs and activities in the United States 
     funded from any account contained in this title.
       (D) Funds appropriated under this heading that are 
     designated for Worldwide Security Protection shall continue 
     to be made available for support of security-related training 
     at sites in existence prior to the enactment of this Act.
       (E) Of the funds made available under this heading, 
     $1,100,000 shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     made available under the heading ``Payment to the American 
     Institute in Taiwan''.
       (7) Clarification.--For purposes of this Act and other Acts 
     making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, the ``Diplomatic Programs'' 
     account shall have the same meaning as the ``Diplomatic and 
     Consular Programs'' account.
                        capital investment fund
       For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, as 
     authorized, $92,770,000, to remain available until expended.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
     $77,629,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929(a)(1)), as it relates to 
     post inspections: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
     under this heading, $11,644,000 may remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
               educational and cultural exchange programs
       For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, 
     as authorized, $690,585,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which not less than $242,400,000 shall be for 
     the Fulbright Program and not less than $112,360,000 shall be 
     for Citizen Exchange Program, including $4,125,000 for the 
     Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange: Provided, That fees or 
     other payments received from, or in connection with, English 
     teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, and 
     exchange visitor programs as authorized may be credited to 
     this account, to remain available until expended: Provided 
     further, That a portion of the Fulbright awards from the 
     Eurasia and Central Asia regions shall be designated as 
     Edmund S. Muskie Fellowships, following consultation
     with the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
     any substantive modifications from the prior fiscal year to 
     programs funded by this Act under this heading shall be 
     subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
                        representation expenses
       For representation expenses as authorized, $8,030,000.
              protection of foreign missions and officials
       For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the 
     Secretary of State to provide for extraordinary protective 
     services, as authorized, $30,890,000, to remain available 
     until September 30, 2020.
            embassy security, construction, and maintenance
       For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
     Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, 
     maintaining, repairing, and planning for buildings that are 
     owned or directly leased by the Department of State, 
     renovating, in addition to funds otherwise available, the 
     Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic 
     Security Construction Program as authorized, $790,100,000, to 
     remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
     $25,000 may be used for domestic and overseas representation 
     expenses as authorized: Provided, That none of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act shall be available for acquisition 
     of furniture, furnishings, or generators for other 
     departments and agencies of the United States Government.
       In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
     acquisition, and construction as authorized, $1,126,304,000, 
     to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
     funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act and prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs, not less than 
     $1,025,304,000 shall be made available for a fiscal year 2019 
     contribution to the Capital Security Cost Sharing and 
     Maintenance Cost Sharing programs: Provided further, That not 
     later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
     of State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations the 
     proposed allocation of funds made available under this 
     heading and the actual and anticipated proceeds of sales for 
     all projects in fiscal year 2019.
           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service
       For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to 
     meet unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and 
     Consular Service, as authorized, $7,885,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
     may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program 
     Account'', subject to the same terms and conditions.
                   repatriation loans program account
       For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as authorized: 
     Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such 
     funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
     principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $5,686,032.
              payment to the american institute in taiwan
       For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations 
     Act (Public Law 96-8), $31,963,000.
         international center, washington, district of columbia
       Not to exceed $1,806,600 shall be derived from fees 
     collected from other executive agencies for lease or use of 
     facilities at the International Center in accordance with 
     section 4 of the International Center Act (Public Law 90-
     553), and, in addition, as authorized by section 5 of such 
     Act, $743,000, to be derived from the reserve authorized by 
     such section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
     section.
     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund
       For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and 
     Disability Fund, as authorized, $158,900,000.
                      International Organizations
              contributions to international organizations
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
     annual obligations of membership in international 
     multilateral organizations, pursuant to treaties ratified 
     pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate, 
     conventions, or specific Acts of Congress, $1,344,135,000: 
     Provided, That the Secretary of State shall, at the time of 
     the submission of the President's budget to Congress under 
     section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, transmit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations the most recent biennial 
     budget prepared by the United Nations for the operations of 
     the United Nations: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     State shall notify the Committees on Appropriations at least 
     15 days in advance (or in an emergency, as far in advance as 
     is practicable) of any United Nations action to increase 
     funding for any United Nations program without identifying an 
     offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United Nations budget: 
     Provided further, That not later than June 1, 2019, and 30 
     days after the end of fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of 
     State shall report to the Committees on Appropriations any 
     credits attributable to the United States, including from the 
     United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide updated 
     fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020 assessment costs 
     including offsets from available credits and updated foreign 
     currency exchange rates: Provided further, That any such 
     credits shall only be available for United States assessed 
     contributions to the United Nations regular budget, and the 
     Committees on Appropriations shall be notified when such 
     credits are applied to any assessed contribution, including 
     any payment of arrearages: Provided further, That any 
     notification regarding funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under this heading in this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs submitted pursuant to 
     section 7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State Department 
     Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any 
     operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 of this 
     Act, shall include an estimate of all known credits currently 
     attributable to the United States and provide updated 
     assessment costs including offsets from available credits and 
     updated foreign currency exchange rates: Provided further, 
     That any payment of arrearages under this heading shall be 
     directed to activities that are mutually agreed upon by the 
     United States and the respective international organization 
     and shall be subject to the regular notification procedures 
     of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     available for a United States contribution to an 
     international organization for the United States share of 
     interest costs made known to the United States Government by 
     such organization for loans incurred on or after October 1, 
     1984, through external borrowings: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated under this heading are made available to 
     pay not less than the full fiscal year 2019 United States 
     assessment for each respective international organization.
        contributions for international peacekeeping activities
       For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses 
     of international peacekeeping activities directed to the 
     maintenance or restoration of international peace and 
     security, $716,425,000, of which 15 percent shall remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That none of 
     the funds made available by this Act shall be obligated or 
     expended for any new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping 
     mission unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for 
     such mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an 
     emergency as far in advance as is practicable), the 
     Committees on Appropriations are notified of: (1) the 
     estimated cost and duration of the mission, the objectives of 
     the mission, the national interest that will be served, and 
     the exit strategy; and (2) the sources of funds, including 
     any reprogrammings or transfers, that will be used to pay the 
     cost of the new or expanded mission, and the estimated cost 
     in future fiscal years: Provided further, That none of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
     for obligation unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations on a peacekeeping 
     mission-by-mission basis that the United Nations is 
     implementing effective policies and procedures to prevent 
     United Nations employees, contractor personnel, and 
     peacekeeping troops serving in such mission from trafficking 
     in persons, exploiting victims of trafficking, or committing 
     acts of sexual exploitation and abuse or other violations of 
     human rights, and to hold accountable individuals who engage 
     in such acts while participating in such mission, including 
     prosecution in their home countries and making information 
     about such prosecutions publicly available on the website of 
     the United Nations: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
     State shall work with the United Nations and foreign 
     governments contributing peacekeeping troops to implement 
     effective vetting procedures to ensure that such troops have 
     not violated human rights: Provided further, That funds shall 
     be available for peacekeeping expenses unless the Secretary 
     of State determines that United States manufacturers and 
     suppliers are not being given opportunities to provide 
     equipment, services, and material for United Nations 
     peacekeeping activities equal to those being given to foreign 
     manufacturers and suppliers: Provided further, That none of 
     the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
     heading may be used for any United Nations peacekeeping 
     mission that will involve United States Armed Forces under 
     the command or operational control of a foreign national, 
     unless the President's military advisors have submitted to 
     the President a recommendation that such involvement is in 
     the national interest of the United States and the President 
     has submitted to Congress such a recommendation: Provided 
     further, That not later than June 1, 2019, and 30 days after 
     the end of fiscal year 2019, the Secretary of State shall 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations any credits 
     attributable to the United States, including those resulting 
     from United Nations peacekeeping missions or the United 
     Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide updated fiscal 
     year 2019 and fiscal year 2020 assessment costs including 
     offsets from available credits: Provided further, That any 
     such credits shall only be available for United States 
     assessed contributions to United Nations peacekeeping 
     missions, and the Committees on Appropriations shall be
     notified when such credits are applied to any assessed 
     contribution, including any payment of arrearages: Provided 
     further, That any notification regarding funds appropriated 
     or otherwise made available under this heading in this Act or 
     prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs submitted pursuant 
     to section 7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State 
     Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or 
     any operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 of this 
     Act, shall include an estimate of all known credits currently 
     attributable to the United States and provide updated 
     assessment costs, including offsets from available credits: 
     Provided further, That any payment of arrearages with funds 
     appropriated by this Act shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall work with 
     the United Nations and members of the United Nations Security 
     Council to evaluate and prioritize peacekeeping missions, and 
     to consider a draw down when mission goals have been 
     substantially achieved.
                       International Commissions
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
     obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or 
     specific Acts of Congress, as follows:
 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico
       For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
     International Boundary and Water Commission, United States 
     and Mexico, and to comply with laws applicable to the United 
     States Section, including not to exceed $6,000 for 
     representation expenses; as follows:
                         salaries and expenses
       For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
     $48,134,000.
                              construction
       For detailed plan preparation and construction of 
     authorized projects, $29,400,000, to remain available until 
     expended, as authorized.
              american sections, international commissions
       For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
     International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
     Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by 
     treaties between the United States and Canada or Great 
     Britain, and the Border Environment Cooperation Commission as 
     authorized by the North American Free Trade Agreement 
     Implementation Act (Public Law 103-182), $13,258,000: 
     Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading for 
     the International Joint Commission, up to $500,000 may remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, and $9,000 may be made 
     available for representation expenses: Provided further, That 
     of the amount provided under this heading for the 
     International Boundary Commission, $1,000 may be made 
     available for representation expenses.
                  international fisheries commissions
       For necessary expenses for international fisheries 
     commissions, not otherwise provided for, as authorized by 
     law, $50,651,000: Provided, That the United States share of 
     such expenses may be advanced to the respective commissions 
     pursuant to section 3324 of title 31, United States Code.
                             RELATED AGENCY
                    Broadcasting Board of Governors
                 international broadcasting operations
       For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
     Governors (BBG), as authorized, to carry out international 
     communication activities, and to make and supervise grants 
     for radio, Internet, and television broadcasting to the 
     Middle East, $804,486,000: Provided, That in addition to 
     amounts otherwise available for such purposes, up to 
     $34,508,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading may 
     remain available until expended for satellite transmissions 
     and Internet freedom programs, of which not less than 
     $13,800,000 shall be for Internet freedom programs: Provided 
     further, That of the total amount appropriated under this 
     heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be used for representation 
     expenses, of which $10,000 may be used for such expenses 
     within the United States as authorized, and not to exceed 
     $30,000 may be used for representation expenses of Radio Free 
     Europe/Radio Liberty: Provided further, That the BBG shall 
     notify the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any 
     determination by the BBG that any of its broadcast entities, 
     including its grantee organizations, provides an open 
     platform for international terrorists or those who support 
     international terrorism, or is in violation of the principles 
     and standards set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of section 
     303 of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 
     1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202) or the entity's journalistic code of 
     ethics: Provided further, That significant modifications to 
     BBG broadcast hours previously justified to Congress, 
     including changes to transmission platforms (shortwave, 
     medium wave, satellite, Internet, and television), for all 
     BBG language services shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That in addition to funds made available 
     under this heading, and notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, up to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising and 
     revenue from business ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts 
     from cooperating international organizations, and up to 
     $1,000,000 in receipts from privatization efforts of the 
     Voice of America and the International Broadcasting Bureau, 
     shall remain available until expended for carrying out 
     authorized purposes.
                   broadcasting capital improvements
       For the purchase, rent, construction, repair, preservation, 
     and improvement of facilities for radio, television, and 
     digital transmission and reception; the purchase, rent, and 
     installation of necessary equipment for radio, television, 
     and digital transmission and reception, including to Cuba, as 
     authorized; and physical security worldwide, in addition to 
     amounts otherwise available for such purposes, $9,700,000, to 
     remain available until expended, as authorized.
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
                          The Asia Foundation
       For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The 
     Asia Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $17,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That funds appropriated 
     under this heading shall be apportioned and obligated to the 
     Foundation not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
     Act.
                    United States Institute of Peace
       For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of 
     Peace, as authorized by the United States Institute of Peace 
     Act (22 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.), $37,884,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020, which shall not be used 
     for construction activities.
         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund
       For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-
     Western Dialogue Trust Fund, as authorized by section 633 of 
     the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
     Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 
     U.S.C. 2078), the total amount of the interest and earnings 
     accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 2019, to 
     remain available until expended.
                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program
       For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
     Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the 
     Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-
     5205), all interest and earnings accruing to the Eisenhower 
     Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund on or before September 
     30, 2019, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
     none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay 
     any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
     contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the 
     rate authorized by section 5376 of title 5, United States 
     Code; or for purposes which are not in accordance with 
     section 200 of title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations, 
     including the restrictions on compensation for personal 
     services.
                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program
       For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship 
     Program, as authorized by section 214 of the Foreign 
     Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 
     U.S.C. 2452 note), all interest and earnings accruing to the 
     Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 
     2019, to remain available until expended.
                            East-West Center
       To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying 
     out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical 
     Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960, by grant to 
     the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
     East and West in the State of Hawaii, $16,700,000: Provided, 
     That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     apportioned and obligated to the Center not later than 45 
     days after enactment of this Act.
                    National Endowment for Democracy
       For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
     Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National 
     Endowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412), $170,000,000, 
     to remain available until expended, of which $117,500,000 
     shall be allocated in the traditional and customary manner, 
     including for the core institutes, and $52,500,000 shall be 
     for democracy programs: Provided, That funds appropriated 
     under this heading shall be apportioned and obligated to the 
     Endowment not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act.
                           OTHER COMMISSIONS
      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses for the Commission for the 
     Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad, $675,000, as 
     authorized by chapter 3123 of title 54, United States Code: 
     Provided, That the Commission may procure temporary, 
     intermittent, and other services notwithstanding paragraph 
     (3) of section 312304(b) of such chapter: Provided further, 
     That such authority shall terminate on October 1, 2019: 
     Provided further, That the Commission shall notify the 
     Committees on Appropriations prior to exercising such 
     authority.
      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
     International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), as authorized by 
     title II of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 
     (22 U.S.C. 6431 et seq.),
     $4,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     including not more than $4,000 for representation expenses: 
     Provided, That prior to the obligation of $1,000,000 of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading, the Commission shall 
     consult with the appropriate congressional committees on the 
     steps taken to implement the recommendations of the 
     Independent Review of USCIRF Mission Effectiveness that was 
     conducted pursuant to the United States Commission on 
     International Religious Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2015 
     (Public Law 114-71), and such funds shall be subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
     Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304 (22 
     U.S.C. 3001 et seq.), $2,579,000, including not more than 
     $4,000 for representation expenses, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive 
     Commission on the People's Republic of China, as authorized 
     by title III of the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000 (22 
     U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, including not more than 
     $3,000 for representation expenses, to remain available until 
     September 30, 2020.
      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission
                         salaries and expenses
       For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic 
     and Security Review Commission, as authorized by section 1238 
     of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for 
     Fiscal Year 2001 (22 U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not 
     more than $4,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That the 
     authorities, requirements, limitations, and conditions 
     contained in the second through sixth provisos under this 
     heading in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
     Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of 
     Public Law 111-117) shall continue in effect during fiscal 
     year 2019 and shall apply to funds appropriated under this 
     heading as if included in this Act.
                                TITLE II
           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
                           operating expenses
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $1,298,914,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
     heading and under the heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in 
     this title may be made available to finance the construction 
     (including architect and engineering services), purchase, or 
     long-term lease of offices for use by the United States 
     Agency for International Development, unless the USAID 
     Administrator has identified such proposed use of funds in a 
     report submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at least 
     15 days prior to the obligation of funds for such purposes: 
     Provided further, That contracts or agreements entered into 
     with funds appropriated under this heading may entail 
     commitments for the expenditure of such funds through the 
     following fiscal year: Provided further, That the authority 
     of sections 610 and 109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     may be exercised by the Secretary of State to transfer funds 
     appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I of such Act to 
     ``Operating Expenses'' in accordance with the provisions of 
     those sections: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated or made available under this heading, not to 
     exceed $250,000 may be available for representation and 
     entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be 
     available for entertainment expenses, and not to exceed 
     $100,500 shall be for official residence expenses, for USAID 
     during the current fiscal year.
                        capital investment fund
       For necessary expenses for overseas construction and 
     related costs, and for the procurement and enhancement of 
     information technology and related capital investments, 
     pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, $225,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
     available for such purposes: Provided further, That of the 
     funds appropriated under this heading in this Act and prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs, not less than 
     $220,400,000 shall be made available for a fiscal year 2019 
     contribution to the Capital Security Cost Sharing and 
     Maintenance Cost Sharing programs: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be available 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
                      office of inspector general
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $73,000,000, of which up to $10,950,000 may remain available 
     until September 30, 2020, for the Office of Inspector General 
     of the United States Agency for International Development.
                               TITLE III
                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
       For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out 
     the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for 
     other purposes, as follows:
                         global health programs
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     chapters 1 and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, for global health activities, in addition to funds 
     otherwise available for such purposes, $3,072,000,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, and which shall be 
     apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
     International Development: Provided, That this amount shall 
     be made available for training, equipment, and technical 
     assistance to build the capacity of public health 
     institutions and organizations in developing countries, and 
     for such activities as: (1) child survival and maternal 
     health programs; (2) immunization and oral rehydration 
     programs; (3) other health, nutrition, water and sanitation 
     programs which directly address the needs of mothers and 
     children, and related education programs; (4) assistance for 
     children displaced or orphaned by causes other than AIDS; (5) 
     programs for the prevention, treatment, control of, and 
     research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and other 
     infectious diseases including neglected tropical diseases, 
     and for assistance to communities severely affected by HIV/
     AIDS, including children infected or affected by AIDS; (6) 
     disaster preparedness training for health crises; (7) 
     programs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to, 
     unanticipated and emerging global health threats; and (8) 
     family planning/reproductive health: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated under this paragraph may be made available 
     for a United States contribution to the GAVI Alliance: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available in 
     this Act nor any unobligated balances from prior 
     appropriations Acts may be made available to any organization 
     or program which, as determined by the President of the 
     United States, supports or participates in the management of 
     a program of coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization: 
     Provided further, That any determination made under the 
     previous proviso must be made not later than 6 months after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, and must be accompanied by 
     the evidence and criteria utilized to make the determination: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
     this Act may be used to pay for the performance of abortion 
     as a method of family planning or to motivate or coerce any 
     person to practice abortions: Provided further, That nothing 
     in this paragraph shall be construed to alter any existing 
     statutory prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That 
     none of the funds made available under this Act may be used 
     to lobby for or against abortion: Provided further, That in 
     order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, 
     funds shall be available only to voluntary family planning 
     projects which offer, either directly or through referral to, 
     or information about access to, a broad range of family 
     planning methods and services, and that any such voluntary 
     family planning project shall meet the following 
     requirements: (1) service providers or referral agents in the 
     project shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or other 
     numerical targets, of total number of births, number of 
     family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular 
     method of family planning (this provision shall not be 
     construed to include the use of quantitative estimates or 
     indicators for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the 
     project shall not include payment of incentives, bribes, 
     gratuities, or financial reward to: (A) an individual in 
     exchange for becoming a family planning acceptor; or (B) 
     program personnel for achieving a numerical target or quota 
     of total number of births, number of family planning 
     acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family 
     planning; (3) the project shall not deny any right or 
     benefit, including the right of access to participate in any 
     program of general welfare or the right of access to health 
     care, as a consequence of any individual's decision not to 
     accept family planning services; (4) the project shall 
     provide family planning acceptors comprehensible information 
     on the health benefits and risks of the method chosen, 
     including those conditions that might render the use of the 
     method inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be 
     consequent to the use of the method; and (5) the project 
     shall ensure that experimental contraceptive drugs and 
     devices and medical procedures are provided only in the 
     context of a scientific study in which participants are 
     advised of potential risks and benefits; and, not less than 
     60 days after the date on which the USAID Administrator 
     determines that there has been a violation of the 
     requirements contained in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of 
     this proviso, or a pattern or practice of violations of the 
     requirements contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso, the 
     Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a report containing a description of such 
     violation and the corrective action taken by the Agency: 
     Provided further, That in awarding grants for natural family 
     planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 no applicant shall be discriminated against because of 
     such applicant's religious or conscientious
     commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, 
     additionally, all such applicants shall comply with the 
     requirements of the previous proviso: Provided further, That 
     for purposes of this or any other Act authorizing or 
     appropriating funds for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, the term ``motivate'', as 
     it relates to family planning assistance, shall not be 
     construed to prohibit the provision, consistent with local 
     law, of information or counseling about all pregnancy 
     options: Provided further, That information provided about 
     the use of condoms as part of projects or activities that are 
     funded from amounts appropriated by this Act shall be 
     medically accurate and shall include the public health 
     benefits and failure rates of such use.
       In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the 
     provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the 
     prevention, treatment, and control of, and research on, HIV/
     AIDS, $5,720,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2023, which shall be apportioned directly to the Department 
     of State: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
     paragraph may be made available, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, except for the United States Leadership 
     Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 
     (Public Law 108-25), for a United States contribution to the 
     Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global 
     Fund), and shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to 
     make timely payment for projects and activities: Provided 
     further, That the amount of such contribution should be 
     $1,350,000,000: Provided further, That clauses (i) and (vi) 
     of section 202(d)(4)(A) of the United States Leadership 
     Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (22 
     U.S.C. 7622) shall be applied with respect to such funds made 
     available for fiscal years 2015 through 2019 by substituting 
     ``2004'' for ``2009'': Provided further, That up to 5 percent 
     of the aggregate amount of funds made available to the Global 
     Fund in fiscal year 2019 may be made available to USAID for 
     technical assistance related to the activities of the Global 
     Fund, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the 
     funds appropriated under this paragraph, up to $17,000,000 
     may be made available, in addition to amounts otherwise 
     available for such purposes, for administrative expenses of 
     the Office of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator.
                         development assistance
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     sections 103, 105, 106, 214, and sections 251 through 255, 
     and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, $3,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020.
                   international disaster assistance
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
     international disaster relief, rehabilitation, and 
     reconstruction assistance, $3,801,034,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That such funds shall be 
     apportioned to the United States Agency for International 
     Development not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
     Act.
                         transition initiatives
       For necessary expenses for international disaster 
     rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance administered by 
     the Office of Transition Initiatives, United States Agency 
     for International Development, pursuant to section 491 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $30,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended, to support transition to democracy 
     and long-term development of countries in crisis: Provided, 
     That such support may include assistance to develop, 
     strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions and 
     processes, revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the 
     peaceful resolution of conflict: Provided further, That the 
     USAID Administrator shall submit a report to the Committees 
     on Appropriations at least 5 days prior to beginning a new 
     program of assistance: Provided further, That if the 
     Secretary of State determines that it is important to the 
     national interest of the United States to provide transition 
     assistance in excess of the amount appropriated under this 
     heading, up to $15,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act to carry out the provisions of part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 may be used for purposes of this 
     heading and under the authorities applicable to funds 
     appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
     made available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be made 
     available subject to prior consultation with the Committees 
     on Appropriations.
                          complex crises fund
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to support programs and 
     activities administered by the United States Agency for 
     International Development to prevent or respond to emerging 
     or unforeseen foreign challenges and complex crises overseas, 
     $30,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
     available on such terms and conditions as are appropriate and 
     necessary for the purposes of preventing or responding to 
     such challenges and crises, except that no funds shall be 
     made available for lethal assistance or to respond to natural 
     disasters: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
     this heading may be made available notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, except sections 7007, 7008, and 7018 of 
     this Act and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
     heading may be used for administrative expenses, in addition 
     to funds otherwise available for such purposes, except that 
     such expenses may not exceed 5 percent of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated under this heading shall be apportioned to USAID 
     not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations, except that such notifications 
     shall be transmitted at least 5 days prior to the obligation 
     of funds.
                      development credit authority
       For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees provided 
     by the United States Agency for International Development, as 
     authorized by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961, up to $55,000,000 may be derived by transfer 
     from funds appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of 
     such Act and under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, That funds provided 
     under this paragraph and funds provided as a gift that are 
     used for purposes of this paragraph pursuant to section 
     635(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made 
     available only for micro- and small enterprise programs, 
     urban programs, and other programs which further the purposes 
     of part I of such Act: Provided further, That funds provided 
     as a gift that are used for purposes of this paragraph shall 
     be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That such costs, including the cost of 
     modifying such direct and guaranteed loans, shall be as 
     defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974, as amended: Provided further, That funds made available 
     by this paragraph may be used for the cost of modifying any 
     such guaranteed loans under this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, and funds used for such 
     cost, including if the cost results in a negative subsidy, 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the 
     provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to general provisions 
     applicable to the Development Credit Authority) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in section 306 
     of H.R. 1486 as reported by the House Committee on 
     International Relations on May 9, 1997, shall be applicable 
     to direct loans and loan guarantees provided under this 
     heading, except that the principal amount of loans made or 
     guaranteed under this heading with respect to any single 
     country shall not exceed $300,000,000: Provided further, That 
     these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, 
     any portion of which is to be guaranteed, of up to 
     $1,750,000,000.
       In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
     credit programs administered by USAID, $10,000,000, which may 
     be transferred to, and merged with, funds made available 
     under the heading ``Operating Expenses'' in title II of this 
     Act: Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
     shall remain available until September 30, 2021.
                         economic support fund
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $2,853,925,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.
                             democracy fund
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy 
     globally, including to carry out the purposes of section 
     502(b)(3) and (5) of Public Law 98-164 (22 U.S.C. 4411), 
     $165,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     which shall be made available for the Human Rights and 
     Democracy Fund of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and 
     Labor, Department of State: Provided, That funds appropriated 
     under this heading that are made available to the National 
     Endowment for Democracy and its core institutes are in 
     addition to amounts otherwise available by this Act for such 
     purposes: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
     this paragraph may be used for administrative expenses of the 
     Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of 
     State: Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
     the obligation of funds appropriated under this paragraph.
       For an additional amount for such purposes, $67,795,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020, which shall be 
     made available for the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and 
     Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency for 
     International Development.
            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act 
     (Public Law 102-511), and the Support for Eastern European 
     Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-179), 
     $770,334,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law, except section 7067 of this Act, for assistance and 
     related programs for countries identified in section 3 of 
     Public Law
     102-511 (22 U.S.C. 5801) and section 3(c) of Public Law 101-
     179 (22 U.S.C. 5402), in addition to funds otherwise 
     available for such purposes: Provided, That funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Global Health 
     Programs'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' that are made 
     available for assistance for such countries shall be 
     administered in accordance with the responsibilities of the 
     coordinator designated pursuant to section 102 of Public Law 
     102-511 and section 601 of Public Law 101-179: Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
     considered to be economic assistance under the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 for purposes of making available the 
     administrative authorities contained in that Act for the use 
     of economic assistance.
                          Department of State
                    migration and refugee assistance
       For necessary expenses not otherwise provided for, to 
     enable the Secretary of State to carry out the provisions of 
     section 2(a) and (b) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance 
     Act of 1962, and other activities to meet refugee and 
     migration needs; salaries and expenses of personnel and 
     dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980; 
     allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of 
     title 5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger 
     motor vehicles; and services as authorized by section 3109 of 
     title 5, United States Code, $2,938,024,000, to remain 
     available until expended, of which not less than $35,000,000 
     shall be made available to respond to small-scale emergency 
     humanitarian requirements, and $5,000,000 shall be made 
     available for refugees resettling in Israel.
     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 2(c) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 
     1962, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)), $1,000,000, to remain 
     available until expended: Provided, That amounts in excess of 
     the limitation contained in paragraph (2) of such section 
     shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds made 
     available by this Act under the heading ``Migration and 
     Refugee Assistance''.
                          Independent Agencies
                              peace corps
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), including the 
     purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for 
     administrative purposes for use outside of the United States, 
     $410,000,000, of which $6,000,000 is for the Office of 
     Inspector General, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020: Provided, That the Director of the Peace Corps may 
     transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as 
     authorized by section 16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 
     2515), an amount not to exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, 
     That funds transferred pursuant to the previous proviso may 
     not be derived from amounts made available for Peace Corps 
     overseas operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $104,000 may 
     be available for representation expenses, of which not to 
     exceed $4,000 may be made available for entertainment 
     expenses: Provided further, That any decision to open, close, 
     significantly reduce, or suspend a domestic or overseas 
     office or country program shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations, except that prior 
     consultation and regular notification procedures may be 
     waived when there is a substantial security risk to 
     volunteers or other Peace Corps personnel, pursuant to 
     section 7015(e) of this Act: Provided further, That none of 
     the funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to 
     pay for abortions: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 
     previous proviso, section 614 of division E of Public Law 
     113-76 shall apply to funds appropriated under this heading.
                    millennium challenge corporation
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
     Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) 
     (MCA), $905,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
     Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
     up to $105,000,000 may be available for administrative 
     expenses of the Millennium Challenge Corporation: Provided 
     further, That section 605(e) of the MCA shall apply to funds 
     appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated under this heading may be made available for a 
     Millennium Challenge Compact entered into pursuant to section 
     609 of the MCA only if such Compact obligates, or contains a 
     commitment to obligate subject to the availability of funds 
     and the mutual agreement of the parties to the Compact to 
     proceed, the entire amount of the United States Government 
     funding anticipated for the duration of the Compact: Provided 
     further, That no country should be eligible for a threshold 
     program after such country has completed a country compact: 
     Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
     heading, not to exceed $100,000 may be available for 
     representation and entertainment expenses, of which not to 
     exceed $5,000 may be available for entertainment expenses.
                       inter-american foundation
       For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the 
     Inter-American Foundation in accordance with the provisions 
     of section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, 
     $22,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
     not to exceed $2,000 may be available for representation 
     expenses.
              united states african development foundation
       For necessary expenses to carry out the African Development 
     Foundation Act (title V of Public Law 96-533; 22 U.S.C. 290h 
     et seq.), $30,000,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be available for 
     representation expenses: Provided, That funds made available 
     to grantees may be invested pending expenditure for project 
     purposes when authorized by the Board of Directors of the 
     United States African Development Foundation (USADF): 
     Provided further, That interest earned shall be used only for 
     the purposes for which the grant was made: Provided further, 
     That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the African 
     Development Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 290h-3(a)(2)), in 
     exceptional circumstances the Board of Directors of the USADF 
     may waive the $250,000 limitation contained in that section 
     with respect to a project and a project may exceed the 
     limitation by up to 10 percent if the increase is due solely 
     to foreign currency fluctuation: Provided further, That the 
     USADF shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
     committees after each time such waiver authority is 
     exercised: Provided further, That the USADF may make rent or 
     lease payments in advance from appropriations available for 
     such purpose for offices, buildings, grounds, and quarters in 
     Africa as may be necessary to carry out its functions: 
     Provided further, That the USADF may maintain bank accounts 
     outside the United States Treasury and retain any interest 
     earned on such accounts, in furtherance of the purposes of 
     the African Development Foundation Act: Provided further, 
     That the USADF may not withdraw any appropriation from the 
     Treasury prior to the need of spending such funds for program 
     purposes.
                       Department of the Treasury
               international affairs technical assistance
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 129 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $30,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That amounts made available under this heading may be made 
     available to contract for services as described in section 
     129(d)(3)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without 
     regard to the location in which such services are performed.
                                TITLE IV
                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
                          Department of State
          international narcotics control and law enforcement
       For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $986,945,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That the 
     Department of State may use the authority of section 608 of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without regard to its 
     restrictions, to receive excess property from an agency of 
     the United States Government for the purpose of providing 
     such property to a foreign country or international 
     organization under chapter 8 of part I of such Act, subject 
     to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That section 482(b) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds 
     appropriated under this heading, except that any funds made 
     available notwithstanding such section shall be subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
     under this heading shall be made available to support 
     training and technical assistance for foreign law 
     enforcement, corrections, judges, and other judicial 
     authorities, utilizing regional partners: Provided further, 
     That funds made available under this heading that are 
     transferred to another department, agency, or instrumentality 
     of the United States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of 
     $5,000,000, and any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) 
     of such Act, shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs
       For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-
     terrorism, demining and related programs and activities, 
     $640,080,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     to carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-terrorism assistance, 
     chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of the 
     Arms Export Control Act, or the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 for demining activities, the clearance of unexploded 
     ordnance, the destruction of small arms, and related 
     activities, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     including activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
     international organizations, and section 301 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 for a United States contribution to 
     the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban
     Treaty Preparatory Commission, and for a voluntary 
     contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency 
     (IAEA): Provided, That funds made available under this 
     heading for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund shall 
     be made available, notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     and subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, 
     to promote bilateral and multilateral activities relating to 
     nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons destruction, and 
     shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
     such funds may also be used for such countries other than the 
     Independent States of the former Soviet Union and 
     international organizations when it is in the national 
     security interest of the United States to do so: Provided 
     further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
     made available for the IAEA unless the Secretary of State 
     determines that Israel is being denied its right to 
     participate in the activities of that Agency: Provided 
     further, That funds made available for conventional weapons 
     destruction programs, including demining and related 
     activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
     purposes, may be used for administrative expenses related to 
     the operation and management of such programs and activities, 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That funds 
     appropriated under this heading shall be made available for 
     the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund, as described in 
     section 8003 of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
     and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of 
     Public Law 115-141), following prior consultation with the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
                        peacekeeping operations
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 551 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $152,212,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
     used, notwithstanding section 660 of such Act, to provide 
     assistance to enhance the capacity of foreign civilian 
     security forces, including gendarmes, to participate in 
     peacekeeping operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
     appropriated under this heading, not less than $31,000,000 
     shall be made available for a United States contribution to 
     the Multinational Force and Observers mission in the Sinai: 
     Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
     this heading shall be obligated except as provided through 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
             international military education and training
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $110,680,000, of which up to $11,000,000 may remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided, That the civilian 
     personnel for whom military education and training may be 
     provided under this heading may include civilians who are not 
     members of a government whose participation would contribute 
     to improved civil-military relations, civilian control of the 
     military, or respect for human rights: Provided further, That 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading, not to exceed 
     $55,000 may be available for entertainment expenses.
                   foreign military financing program
       For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President 
     to carry out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export 
     Control Act, $5,475,613,000: Provided, That to expedite the 
     provision of assistance to foreign countries and 
     international organizations, the Secretary of State, 
     following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations 
     and subject to the regular notification procedures of such 
     Committees, may use the funds appropriated under this heading 
     to procure defense articles and services to enhance the 
     capacity of foreign security forces: Provided further, That 
     of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
     $3,300,000,000 shall be available for grants only for Israel 
     which shall be disbursed within 30 days of enactment of this 
     Act: Provided further, That to the extent that the Government 
     of Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, 
     grants made available for Israel under this heading shall, as 
     agreed by the United States and Israel, be available for 
     advanced weapons systems, of which not less than $815,300,000 
     shall be available for the procurement in Israel of defense 
     articles and defense services, including research and 
     development: Provided further, That funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available under this heading shall be 
     nonrepayable notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of 
     the Arms Export Control Act: Provided further, That funds 
     made available under this heading shall be obligated upon 
     apportionment in accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of section 
     1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
       None of the funds made available under this heading shall 
     be available to finance the procurement of defense articles, 
     defense services, or design and construction services that 
     are not sold by the United States Government under the Arms 
     Export Control Act unless the foreign country proposing to 
     make such procurement has first signed an agreement with the 
     United States Government specifying the conditions under 
     which such procurement may be financed with such funds: 
     Provided, That all country and funding level increases in 
     allocations shall be submitted through the regular 
     notification procedures of section 7015 of this Act: Provided 
     further, That funds made available under this heading may be 
     used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
     demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
     activities, and may include activities implemented through 
     nongovernmental and international organizations: Provided 
     further, That only those countries for which assistance was 
     justified for the ``Foreign Military Sales Financing 
     Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 congressional presentation 
     for security assistance programs may utilize funds made 
     available under this heading for procurement of defense 
     articles, defense services, or design and construction 
     services that are not sold by the United States Government 
     under the Arms Export Control Act: Provided further, That 
     funds appropriated under this heading shall be expended at 
     the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for defense 
     articles and services: Provided further, That not more than 
     $75,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may 
     be obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase 
     of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only for use 
     outside of the United States, for the general costs of 
     administering military assistance and sales, except that this 
     limitation may be exceeded only through the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
     heading for general costs of administering military 
     assistance and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available 
     for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $130,000 may be 
     available for representation expenses: Provided further, That 
     not more than $950,000,000 of funds realized pursuant to 
     section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act may be 
     obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
     during fiscal year 2019 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms 
     Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be 
     exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
                                TITLE V
                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
                international organizations and programs
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of 
     section 2 of the United Nations Environment Program 
     Participation Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-188; 87 Stat. 713), 
     $358,750,000: Provided, That section 307(a) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to contributions to 
     the United Nations Democracy Fund.
                  International Financial Institutions
                      global environment facility
       For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction 
     and Development as trustee for the Global Environment 
     Facility by the Secretary of the Treasury, $136,563,000, to 
     remain available until expended, which shall be obligated for 
     payment not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act: 
     Provided, That such funds are only available for the first 
     installment of the seventh replenishment of the Global 
     Environment Facility and to support a multi-year pledge to 
     such replenishment of not less than $546,252,000.
       contribution to the international development association
       For payment to the International Development Association by 
     the Secretary of the Treasury, $1,097,010,000, to remain 
     available until expended.
       For an additional amount for payment to the International 
     Development Association by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
     $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
     less than $1,500,000 is to support the World Bank Inspection 
     Panel and not less than $500,000 is to support the Office of 
     the Compliance Advisor Ombudsman.
               contribution to the asian development fund
       For payment to the Asian Development Bank's Asian 
     Development Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
     $47,395,000, to remain available until expended.
              contribution to the african development bank
       For payment to the African Development Bank by the 
     Secretary of the Treasury for the United States share of the 
     paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, 
     $32,417,000, to remain available until expended.
              limitation on callable capital subscriptions
       The United States Governor of the African Development Bank 
     may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable 
     capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
     stock in an amount not to exceed $507,860,806.
              contribution to the african development fund
       For payment to the African Development Fund by the 
     Secretary of the Treasury, $171,300,000, to remain available 
     until expended.
  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development
       For payment to the International Fund for Agricultural 
     Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to 
     remain available until expended, which shall be obligated for 
     payment not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act: 
     Provided, That such funds shall only be available for the 
     first installment of the eleventh replenishment of
     the International Fund for Agricultural Development and to 
     support a multiyear pledge of not less than $90,000,000.
                                TITLE VI
                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE
                Export-Import Bank of the United States
                           inspector general
       For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
     in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act 
     of 1978, as amended, $5,700,000, of which up to $855,000 may 
     remain available until September 30, 2020.
                            program account
       The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized 
     to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and 
     borrowing authority available to such corporation, and in 
     accordance with law, and to make such contracts and 
     commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
     provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as 
     may be necessary in carrying out the program for the current 
     fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
     funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to 
     make expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export 
     of nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology to any country, 
     other than a nuclear-weapon state as defined in Article IX of 
     the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
     eligible to receive economic or military assistance under 
     this Act, that has detonated a nuclear explosive after the 
     date of enactment of this Act.
                        administrative expenses
       For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
     guaranteed loan and insurance programs, including hire of 
     passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to 
     exceed $30,000 for official reception and representation 
     expenses for members of the Board of Directors, not to exceed 
     $110,000,000, of which up to $16,500,000 may remain available 
     until September 30, 2020: Provided, That the Export-Import 
     Bank (the Bank) may accept, and use, payment or services 
     provided by transaction participants for legal, financial, or 
     technical services in connection with any transaction for 
     which an application for a loan, guarantee or insurance 
     commitment has been made: Provided further, That the Bank 
     shall charge fees for necessary expenses (including special 
     services performed on a contract or fee basis, but not 
     including other personal services) in connection with the 
     collection of moneys owed the Bank, repossession or sale of 
     pledged collateral or other assets acquired by the Bank in 
     satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or the investigation or 
     appraisal of any property, or the evaluation of the legal, 
     financial, or technical aspects of any transaction for which 
     an application for a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment 
     has been made, or systems infrastructure directly supporting 
     transactions: Provided further, That in addition to other 
     funds appropriated for administrative expenses, such fees 
     shall be credited to this account for such purposes, to 
     remain available until expended.
                           receipts collected
       Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act 
     of 1945 (Public Law 79-173) and the Federal Credit Reform Act 
     of 1990, in an amount not to exceed the amount appropriated 
     herein, shall be credited as offsetting collections to this 
     account: Provided, That the sums herein appropriated from the 
     General Fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by 
     such offsetting collections so as to result in a final fiscal 
     year appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $0: 
     Provided further, That amounts collected in fiscal year 2019 
     in excess of obligations, up to $10,000,000 shall become 
     available on September 1, 2019, and shall remain available 
     until September 30, 2022.
                Overseas Private Investment Corporation
                           noncredit account
       The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized 
     to make, without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
     provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, 
     such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
     available to it and in accordance with law as may be 
     necessary: Provided, That the amount available for 
     administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance 
     programs (including an amount for official reception and 
     representation expenses which shall not exceed $35,000) shall 
     not exceed $79,200,000: Provided further, That project-
     specific transaction costs, including direct and indirect 
     costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs 
     associated with services provided to specific investors or 
     potential investors pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, shall not be considered 
     administrative expenses for the purposes of this heading.
                            program account
       For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
     by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $20,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the Overseas 
     Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That such 
     costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
     as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974: Provided further, That funds so obligated in fiscal 
     year 2019 remain available for disbursement through 2027; 
     funds obligated in fiscal year 2020 remain available for 
     disbursement through 2028; and funds obligated in fiscal year 
     2021 remain available for disbursement through 2029: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to 
     undertake any program authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of 
     part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq: 
     Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to the 
     authority of the previous proviso shall be subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       In addition, such sums as may be necessary for 
     administrative expenses to carry out the credit program may 
     be derived from amounts available for administrative expenses 
     to carry out the credit and insurance programs in the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account and 
     merged with said account.
                      trade and development agency
       For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
     section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     $79,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
     not more than $5,000 may be available for representation and 
     entertainment expenses.
                               TITLE VII
                           GENERAL PROVISIONS
                      allowances and differentials
       Sec. 7001. Funds appropriated under title I of this Act 
     shall be available, except as otherwise provided, for 
     allowances and differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 
     of title 5, United States Code; for services as authorized by 
     section 3109 of such title and for hire of passenger 
     transportation pursuant to section 1343(b) of title 31, 
     United States Code.
                      unobligated balances report
       Sec. 7002. Any department or agency of the United States 
     Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act shall provide to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a quarterly accounting of cumulative 
     unobligated balances and obligated, but unexpended, balances 
     by program, project, and activity, and Treasury Account Fund 
     Symbol of all funds received by such department or agency in 
     fiscal year 2019 or any previous fiscal year, disaggregated 
     by fiscal year: Provided, That the report required by this 
     section shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the 
     end of each fiscal quarter and should specify by account the 
     amount of funds obligated pursuant to bilateral agreements 
     which have not been further sub-obligated.
                          consulting services
       Sec. 7003. The expenditure of any appropriation under title 
     I of this Act for any consulting service through procurement 
     contract, pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States 
     Code, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
     expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
     public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
     existing law, or under existing Executive order issued 
     pursuant to existing law.
                         diplomatic facilities
       Sec. 7004. (a) Capital Security Cost Sharing Information.--
     The Secretary of State shall promptly inform the Committees 
     on Appropriations of each instance in which a Federal 
     department or agency is delinquent in providing the full 
     amount of funding required by section 604(e) of the Secure 
     Embassy Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 
     U.S.C. 4865 note).
       (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of section 
     604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction and 
     Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (title VI of division A of H.R. 
     3427, as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 
     106-113 and contained in appendix G of that Act), as amended 
     by section 111 of the Department of State Authorities Act, 
     Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323), a project to construct 
     a facility of the United States may include office space or 
     other accommodations for members of the United States Marine 
     Corps.
       (c) New Diplomatic Facilities.--For the purposes of 
     calculating the fiscal year 2019 costs of providing new 
     United States diplomatic facilities in accordance with 
     section 604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction and 
     Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note), the 
     Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of the 
     Office of Management and Budget, shall determine the annual 
     program level and agency shares in a manner that is 
     proportional to the contribution of the Department of State 
     for this purpose.
       (d) Consultation and Notification.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, which may be made available for the acquisition of 
     property or award of construction contracts for overseas 
     United States diplomatic facilities during fiscal year 2019, 
     shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided, That notifications pursuant to this subsection 
     shall include the information enumerated under the heading 
     ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' in House 
     Report 115-253 and Senate Report 114-290: Provided further, 
     That any such notification for a new diplomatic facility 
     justified to the Committees on Appropriations in the 
     Congressional Budget Justification, Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2019, 
     or not previously justified to such Committees, shall
     also include confirmation that the Department of State has 
     completed the requisite value engineering studies required 
     pursuant to OMB Circular A-131, Value Engineering December 
     31, 2013 and the Bureau of Overseas Building Operations 
     Policy and Procedure Directive, P&PD, Cost 02: Value 
     Engineering.
       (e) Interim and Temporary Facilities Abroad.--
       (1) Security vulnerabilities.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
     Maintenance'' may be made available, following consultation 
     with the appropriate congressional committees, to address 
     security vulnerabilities at interim and temporary United 
     States diplomatic facilities abroad, including physical 
     security upgrades and local guard staffing, except that the 
     amount of funds made available for such purposes from this 
     Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
     of State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be a 
     minimum of $25,000,000.
       (2) Consultation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, the opening, closure, or any significant modification to 
     an interim or temporary United States diplomatic facility 
     shall be subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
     congressional committees and the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, except that 
     such consultation and notification may be waived if there is 
     a security risk to personnel.
       (f) Transfer of Funds Authority.--Funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'', including for Worldwide 
     Security Protection, and under the heading ``Embassy 
     Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' in this Act may be 
     transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated under 
     such headings if the Secretary of State determines and 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so is 
     necessary to implement the recommendations of the Benghazi 
     Accountability Review Board, or to prevent or respond to 
     security situations and requirements, following consultation 
     with, and subject to the regular notification procedures of, 
     such Committees: Provided, That such transfer authority is in 
     addition to any transfer authority otherwise available under 
     any other provision of law.
       (g) Soft Targets.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' 
     may be made available for security upgrades to soft targets, 
     including schools, recreational facilities, and residences 
     used by United States diplomatic personnel and their 
     dependents, except that the amount made available for such 
     purposes shall be a minimum of $10,000,000.
       (h) Secure Resupply and Maintenance.--The Secretary of 
     State may not grant final approval for the construction of a 
     new facility or substantial construction to improve or expand 
     an existing facility in the United States by or for the 
     Government of the People's Republic of China until the 
     Secretary certifies and reports to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that an agreement has been concluded 
     between the Governments of the United States and the People's 
     Republic of China that permits secure resupply, maintenance, 
     and new construction of United States Government facilities 
     in the People's Republic of China.
       (i) New Embassy Compound Kinshasa.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Peacekeeping 
     Operations'' that are made available for the central 
     Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 25 
     percent shall be withheld from obligation until the Secretary 
     of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such Government has fully vacated the 
     property purchased by the United States in Kinshasa for the 
     construction of a New Embassy Compound.
                           personnel actions
       Sec. 7005. Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
     funded under title I of this Act resulting from personnel 
     actions taken in response to funding reductions included in 
     this Act shall be absorbed within the total budgetary 
     resources available under title I to such department or 
     agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
     between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry 
     out this section is provided in addition to authorities 
     included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use of 
     funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a 
     reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of this Act.
                     department of state management
       Sec. 7006. (a) Financial Systems Improvement.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act for the operations of the Department 
     of State under the headings ``Diplomatic Programs'' and 
     ``Capital Investment Fund'' shall be made available to 
     implement the recommendations contained in the Foreign 
     Assistance Data Review Findings Report (FADR) and the Office 
     of Inspector General (OIG) report entitled ``Department 
     Financial Systems Are Insufficient to Track and Report on 
     Foreign Assistance Funds'': Provided, That not later than 45 
     days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations an update to 
     the plan required under section 7006 of the Department of 
     State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31) 
     for implementing the FADR and OIG recommendations: Provided 
     further, That such funds may not be obligated for 
     enhancements to, or expansions of, the Budget System 
     Modernization Financial System, Central Resource Management 
     System, Joint Financial Management System, or Foreign 
     Assistance Coordination and Tracking System until such 
     updated plan is submitted to the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That such funds may not be 
     obligated for new, or expansion of existing, ad hoc 
     electronic systems to track commitments, obligations, or 
     expenditures of funds unless the Secretary of State, 
     following consultation with the Chief Information Officer of 
     the Department of State, has reviewed and certified that such 
     new system or expansion is consistent with the FADR and OIG 
     recommendations.
       (b) Working Capital Fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     or otherwise made available to the Department of State for 
     payments to the Working Capital Fund may only be used for the 
     service centers included in the Congressional Budget 
     Justification, Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
     Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2019: Provided, That the 
     amounts for such service centers shall be the amounts 
     included in such budget justification, except as provided in 
     section 7015(b) of this Act: Provided further, That Federal 
     agency components shall be charged only for their direct 
     usage of each Working Capital Fund service: Provided further, 
     That prior to increasing the percentage charged to Department 
     of State bureaus and offices for procurement-related 
     activities, the Secretary of State shall include the proposed 
     increase in the Department of State budget justification or, 
     at least 60 days prior to the increase, provide the 
     Committees on Appropriations a justification for such 
     increase, including a detailed assessment of the cost and 
     benefit of the services provided by the procurement fee: 
     Provided further, That Federal agency components may only pay 
     for Working Capital Fund services that are consistent with 
     the purpose and authorities of such components: Provided 
     further, That the Working Capital Fund shall be paid in 
     advance or reimbursed at rates which will return the full 
     cost of each service.
       (c) Certification.--
       (1) Not later than 45 days after the initial obligation of 
     funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act that 
     are made available to a Department of State bureau or office 
     with responsibility for the management and oversight of such 
     funds, the Secretary of State shall certify and report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations, on an individual bureau or 
     office basis, that such bureau or office is in compliance 
     with Department and Federal financial and grants management 
     policies, procedures, and regulations, as applicable.
       (2) When making a certification required by paragraph (1), 
     the Secretary of State shall consider the capacity of a 
     bureau or office to--
       (A) account for the obligated funds at the country and 
     program level, as appropriate;
       (B) identify risks and develop mitigation and monitoring 
     plans;
       (C) establish performance measures and indicators;
       (D) review activities and performance; and
       (E) assess final results and reconcile finances.
       (3) If the Secretary of State is unable to make a 
     certification required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
     submit a plan and timeline detailing the steps to be taken to 
     bring such bureau or office into compliance.
        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries
       Sec. 7007. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall 
     be obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance 
     or reparations for the governments of Cuba, North Korea, 
     Iran, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this section, 
     the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall include 
     direct loans, credits, insurance, and guarantees of the 
     Export-Import Bank or its agents.
                              coups d'etat
       Sec. 7008. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall 
     be obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance 
     to the government of any country whose duly elected head of 
     government is deposed by military coup d'etat or decree or, 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, a coup d'etat or 
     decree in which the military plays a decisive role: Provided, 
     That assistance may be resumed to such government if the 
     Secretary of State certifies and reports to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that subsequent to the termination 
     of assistance a democratically elected government has taken 
     office: Provided further, That the provisions of this section 
     shall not apply to assistance to promote democratic elections 
     or public participation in democratic processes: Provided 
     further, That funds made available pursuant to the previous 
     provisos shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
                      transfer of funds authority
       Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and Broadcasting Board 
     of Governors.--
       (1) Department of state.--Not to exceed 5 percent of any 
     appropriation made available for the current fiscal year for 
     the Department of State under title I of this Act may be 
     transferred between, and merged with, such appropriations, 
     but no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically 
     provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any 
     such transfers, and no such
     transfer may be made to increase the appropriation under the 
     heading ``Representation Expenses''.
       (2) Broadcasting board of governors.--Not to exceed 5 
     percent of any appropriation made available for the current 
     fiscal year for the Broadcasting Board of Governors under 
     title I of this Act may be transferred between, and merged 
     with, such appropriations, but no such appropriation, except 
     as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by 
     more than 10 percent by any such transfers.
       (3) Treatment as reprogramming.--Any transfer pursuant to 
     this subsection shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
     under section 7015 of this Act and shall not be available for 
     obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
     procedures set forth in that section.
       (b) Title VI Agencies.--Not to exceed 5 percent of any 
     appropriation, other than for administrative expenses made 
     available for fiscal year 2019, for programs under title VI 
     of this Act may be transferred between such appropriations 
     for use for any of the purposes, programs, and activities for 
     which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no 
     such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically 
     provided, shall be increased by more than 25 percent by any 
     such transfer: Provided, That the exercise of such authority 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) Limitation on Transfers of Funds Between Agencies.--
       (1) In general.--None of the funds made available under 
     titles II through V of this Act may be transferred to any 
     department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
     Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
     transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other 
     appropriations Act.
       (2) Allocation and transfers.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
     (1), in addition to transfers made by, or authorized 
     elsewhere in, this Act, funds appropriated by this Act to 
     carry out the purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     may be allocated or transferred to agencies of the United 
     States Government pursuant to the provisions of sections 109, 
     610, and 632 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (3) Notification.--Any agreement entered into by the United 
     States Agency for International Development or the Department 
     of State with any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
     the United States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of 
     $1,000,000 and any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) 
     of such Act, with funds appropriated by this Act or prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs under the headings 
     ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'' shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided, That the requirement in the previous sentence shall 
     not apply to agreements entered into between USAID and the 
     Department of State.
       (d) Transfer of Funds Between Accounts.--None of the funds 
     made available under titles II through V of this Act may be 
     obligated under an appropriations account to which such funds 
     were not appropriated, except for transfers specifically 
     provided for in this Act, unless the President, not less than 
     5 days prior to the exercise of any authority contained in 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
     consults with and provides a written policy justification to 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (e) Audit of Inter-agency Transfers of Funds.--Any 
     agreement for the transfer or allocation of funds 
     appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations and related 
     programs, entered into between the Department of State or 
     USAID and another agency of the United States Government 
     under the authority of section 632(a) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law, 
     shall expressly provide that the Inspector General (IG) for 
     the agency receiving the transfer or allocation of such 
     funds, or other entity with audit responsibility if the 
     receiving agency does not have an IG, shall perform periodic 
     program and financial audits of the use of such funds and 
     report to the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate, 
     upon completion of such audits: Provided, That such audits 
     shall be transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations by 
     the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate: Provided 
     further, That funds transferred under such authority may be 
     made available for the cost of such audits.
              prohibition on certain operational expenses
       Sec. 7010. (a) First-Class Travel.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by 
     employees of United States Government departments and 
     agencies funded by this Act in contravention of section 301-
     10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal 
     Regulations.
       (b) Computer Networks.--None of the funds made available by 
     this Act for the operating expenses of any United States 
     Government department or agency may be used to establish or 
     maintain a computer network for use by such department or 
     agency unless such network has filters designed to block 
     access to sexually explicit websites: Provided, That nothing 
     in this subsection shall limit the use of funds necessary for 
     any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agency, 
     or any other entity carrying out the following activities: 
     criminal investigations, prosecutions, and adjudications; 
     administrative discipline; and the monitoring of such 
     websites undertaken as part of official business.
                         availability of funds
       Sec. 7011. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall remain available for obligation after the 
     expiration of the current fiscal year unless expressly so 
     provided by this Act: Provided, That funds appropriated for 
     the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 of part I, section 661, 
     chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
     Act, and funds provided under the headings ``Development 
     Credit Authority'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
     Central Asia'' shall remain available for an additional 4 
     years from the date on which the availability of such funds 
     would otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially 
     obligated before the expiration of their respective periods 
     of availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That 
     the availability of funds pursuant to the previous proviso 
     shall not be applicable to such funds until the Secretary of 
     State submits the report required under section 7011 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of Public Law 115-141): 
     Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
     this Act, any funds made available for the purposes of 
     chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or obligated for 
     cash disbursements in order to address balance of payments or 
     economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available for 
     an additional 4 years from the date on which the availability 
     of such funds would otherwise have expired, if such funds are 
     initially allocated or obligated before the expiration of 
     their respective periods of availability contained in this 
     Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
     provide a report to the Committees on Appropriations not 
     later than October 30, 2019, detailing by account and source 
     year, the use of this authority during the previous fiscal 
     year.
            limitation on assistance to countries in default
       Sec. 7012. No part of any appropriation provided under 
     titles III through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish 
     assistance to the government of any country which is in 
     default during a period in excess of 1 calendar year in 
     payment to the United States of principal or interest on any 
     loan made to the government of such country by the United 
     States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated 
     under this Act unless the President determines, following 
     consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, that 
     assistance for such country is in the national interest of 
     the United States.
          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance
       Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     made available to provide assistance for a foreign country 
     under a new bilateral agreement governing the terms and 
     conditions under which such assistance is to be provided 
     unless such agreement includes a provision stating that 
     assistance provided by the United States shall be exempt from 
     taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the 
     Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States 
     Agency for International Development shall expeditiously seek 
     to negotiate amendments to existing bilateral agreements, as 
     necessary, to conform with this requirement.
       (b) Notification and Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An 
     amount equivalent to 200 percent of the total taxes assessed 
     during fiscal year 2019 on funds appropriated by this Act and 
     prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs by a foreign 
     government or entity against United States assistance 
     programs, either directly or through grantees, contractors, 
     and subcontractors, shall be withheld from obligation from 
     funds appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2020 and 
     for prior fiscal years and allocated for the central 
     government of such country or for the West Bank and Gaza 
     program, as applicable, if, not later than September 30, 
     2020, such taxes have not been reimbursed: Provided, That the 
     Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations by such date on the foreign governments and 
     entities that have not reimbursed such taxes, including any 
     amount of funds withheld pursuant to this subsection.
       (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis 
     nature shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection 
     (b).
       (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation 
     for each foreign government or entity pursuant to subsection 
     (b) shall be reprogrammed for assistance for countries which 
     do not assess taxes on United States assistance or which have 
     an effective arrangement that is providing substantial 
     reimbursement of such taxes, and that can reasonably 
     accommodate such assistance in a programmatically responsible 
     manner.
       (e) Determinations.--
       (1) In general.--The provisions of this section shall not 
     apply to any foreign government or entity that assesses such 
     taxes if the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that--
       (A) such foreign government or entity has an effective 
     arrangement that is providing substantial reimbursement of 
     such taxes; or
       (B) the foreign policy interests of the United States 
     outweigh the purpose of this section to ensure that United 
     States assistance is not subject to taxation.
       (2) Consultation.--The Secretary of State shall consult 
     with the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior 
     to exercising the authority of this subsection with regard to 
     any foreign government or entity.
       (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue and 
     update rules, regulations, or policy guidance, as 
     appropriate, to implement the prohibition against the 
     taxation of assistance contained in this section.
       (g) Definitions.--As used in this section:
       (1) Bilateral agreement.--The term ``bilateral agreement'' 
     refers to a framework bilateral agreement between the 
     Government of the United States and the government of the 
     country receiving assistance that describes the privileges 
     and immunities applicable to United States foreign assistance 
     for such country generally, or an individual agreement 
     between the Government of the United States and such 
     government that describes, among other things, the treatment 
     for tax purposes that will be accorded the United States 
     assistance provided under that agreement.
       (2) Taxes and taxation.--The term ``taxes and taxation'' 
     shall include value added taxes and customs duties but shall 
     not include individual income taxes assessed to local staff.
                         reservations of funds
       Sec. 7014. (a) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated under 
     titles III through VI of this Act which are specifically 
     designated may be reprogrammed for other programs within the 
     same account notwithstanding the designation if compliance 
     with the designation is made impossible by operation of any 
     provision of this or any other Act: Provided, That any such 
     reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to 
     this subsection shall be made available under the same terms 
     and conditions as originally provided.
       (b) Extension of Availability.--In addition to the 
     authority contained in subsection (a), the original period of 
     availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
     administered by the Department of State or the United States 
     Agency for International Development that are specifically 
     designated for particular programs or activities by this or 
     any other Act may be extended for an additional fiscal year 
     if the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as 
     appropriate, determines and reports promptly to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that the termination of 
     assistance to a country or a significant change in 
     circumstances makes it unlikely that such designated funds 
     can be obligated during the original period of availability: 
     Provided, That such designated funds that continue to be 
     available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated 
     only for the purpose of such designation.
       (c) Other Acts.--Ceilings and specifically designated 
     funding levels contained in this Act shall not be applicable 
     to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically 
     so directs: Provided, That specifically designated funding 
     levels or minimum funding requirements contained in any other 
     Act shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this 
     Act.
                       notification requirements
       Sec. 7015. (a) Notification of Changes in Programs, 
     Projects, and Activities.--None of the funds made available 
     in titles I and II of this Act or prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs to the departments and 
     agencies funded by this Act that remain available for 
     obligation in fiscal year 2019, or provided from any accounts 
     in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
     collection of fees or of currency reflows or other offsetting 
     collections, or made available by transfer, to the 
     departments and agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
     available for obligation to--
       (1) create new programs;
       (2) suspend or eliminate a program, project, or activity;
       (3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mission or post;
       (4) create, close, reorganize, downsize, or rename bureaus, 
     centers, or offices; or
       (5) contract out or privatize any functions or activities 
     presently performed by Federal employees;
     unless previously justified to the Committees on 
     Appropriations or such Committees are notified 15 days in 
     advance of such obligation.
       (b) Notification of Reprogramming of Funds.--None of the 
     funds provided under titles I and II of this Act or prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs, to the departments 
     and agencies funded under titles I and II of this Act that 
     remain available for obligation in fiscal year 2019, or 
     provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
     States derived by the collection of fees available to the 
     department and agency funded under title I of this Act, shall 
     be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
     programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in 
     excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that--
       (1) augments or changes existing programs, projects, or 
     activities;
       (2) relocates an existing office or employees;
       (3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
     project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent 
     as approved by Congress; or
       (4) results from any general savings, including savings 
     from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a change 
     in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
     Congress;
     unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days 
     in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
       (c) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act under the headings ``Global Health 
     Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``International 
     Organizations and Programs'', ``Trade and Development 
     Agency'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
     ``Peacekeeping Operations'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', ``Millennium 
     Challenge Corporation'', ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'', ``International Military Education and Training'', 
     and ``Peace Corps'', shall be available for obligation for 
     activities, programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, 
     countries, or other operations not justified or in excess of 
     the amount justified to the Committees on Appropriations for 
     obligation under any of these specific headings unless the 
     Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
     of such obligation: Provided, That the President shall not 
     enter into any commitment of funds appropriated for the 
     purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for the 
     provision of major defense equipment, other than conventional 
     ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
     aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously 
     justified to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the 
     quantities justified to Congress unless the Committees on 
     Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
     commitment: Provided further, That requirements of this 
     subsection or any similar provision of this or any other Act 
     shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, 
     program, or project for which funds are appropriated under 
     titles III through VI of this Act of less than 10 percent of 
     the amount previously justified to Congress for obligation 
     for such activity, program, or project for the current fiscal 
     year: Provided further, That any notification submitted 
     pursuant to subsection (f) of this section shall include 
     information (if known on the date of transmittal of such 
     notification) on the use of notwithstanding authority: 
     Provided further, That if subsequent to the notification of 
     assistance it becomes necessary to rely on notwithstanding 
     authority, the Committees on Appropriations should be 
     informed at the earliest opportunity and to the extent 
     practicable.
       (d) Department of Defense Programs and Funding 
     Notifications.--
       (1) Programs.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs may be made 
     available to support or continue any program initially funded 
     under any authority of title 10, United States Code, or any 
     Act making or authorizing appropriations for the Department 
     of Defense, unless the Secretary of State, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of Defense and in accordance with the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations, submits a justification to such Committees 
     that includes a description of, and the estimated costs 
     associated with, the support or continuation of such program.
       (2) Funding.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds transferred by the Department of Defense to the 
     Department of State and the United States Agency for 
     International Development for assistance for foreign 
     countries and international organizations shall be subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (3) Notification on excess defense equipment.--Prior to 
     providing excess Department of Defense articles in accordance 
     with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations to the same extent and under the same 
     conditions as other committees pursuant to subsection (f) of 
     that section: Provided, That before issuing a letter of offer 
     to sell excess defense articles under the Arms Export Control 
     Act, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations in accordance with the regular notification 
     procedures of such Committees if such defense articles are 
     significant military equipment (as defined in section 47(9) 
     of the Arms Export Control Act) or are valued (in terms of 
     original acquisition cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if 
     notification is required elsewhere in this Act for the use of 
     appropriated funds for specific countries that would receive 
     such excess defense articles: Provided further, That such 
     Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition 
     cost of such defense articles.
       (e) Waiver.--The requirements of this section or any 
     similar provision of this Act or
     any other Act, including any prior Act requiring notification 
     in accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if failure to do 
     so would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare: 
     Provided, That in case of any such waiver, notification to 
     the Committees on Appropriations shall be provided as early 
     as practicable, but in no event later than 3 days after 
     taking the action to which such notification requirement was 
     applicable, in the context of the circumstances necessitating 
     such waiver: Provided further, That any notification provided 
     pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an explanation of the 
     emergency circumstances.
       (f) Country Notification Requirements.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     obligated or expended for assistance for Afghanistan, 
     Bahrain, Burma, Cambodia, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, 
     Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, 
     Libya, Mexico, Pakistan, Philippines, the Russian Federation, 
     Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Uzbekistan, 
     Venezuela, Yemen, and Zimbabwe except as provided through the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (g) Trust Funds.--Funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available in title III of this Act and prior Acts making 
     funds available for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs that are made available for 
     a trust fund held by an international financial institution 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (h) Other Program Notification Requirement.--
       (1) Diplomatic programs.--Funds appropriated under title I 
     of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' that 
     are made available for a pilot program for lateral entry into 
     the Foreign Service shall be subject to prior consultation 
     with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (2) Other programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
     are made available for the following programs and activities 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations--
       (A) The Global Engagement Center, except that the Secretary 
     of State shall consult with the appropriate congressional 
     committees prior to submitting such notification;
       (B) The Power Africa initiative, or any successor program;
       (C) Community-based police assistance conducted pursuant to 
     the authority of section 7049(a)(1) of this Act;
       (D) Programs to counter foreign fighters and extremist 
     organizations, pursuant to section 7069(a) of this Act;
       (E) The Relief and Recovery Fund;
       (F) The Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund;
       (G) The Indo-Pacific Strategy;
       (H) The Global Security Contingency Fund; and
       (I) Programs to end modern slavery.
       (i) Withholding of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under titles III and IV that are withheld from obligation or 
     otherwise not programmed as a result of application of a 
     provision of law in this or any other Act shall, if 
     reprogrammed, be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (j) Requirement to Inform, Coordinate, and Consult.--
       (1) The Secretary of State shall promptly inform the 
     appropriate congressional committees of each instance in 
     which funds appropriated by this Act for assistance for Iraq, 
     Libya, Somalia, Syria, the Counterterrorism Partnership Fund, 
     the Relief and Recovery Fund, or programs to counter 
     extremism and foreign fighters abroad, have been diverted or 
     destroyed, to include the type and amount of assistance, a 
     description of the incident and parties involved, and an 
     explanation of the response of the Department of State or 
     USAID, as appropriate: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     ensure such funds are coordinated with, and complement, the 
     programs of other United States Government departments and 
     agencies and international partners in such countries and on 
     such activities.
       (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations at least seven days prior to 
     informing a government of, or publically announcing a 
     decision on, the suspension of assistance to a country or a 
     territory, including as a result of an interagency review of 
     such assistance, from funds appropriated by this Act or prior 
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs.
   document requests, records management, and related cybersecurity 
                              protections
       Sec. 7016. (a) Requests for Documents.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or made available pursuant to titles III through 
     VI of this Act shall be available to a nongovernmental 
     organization, including any contractor, which fails to 
     provide upon timely request any document, file, or record 
     necessary to the auditing requirements of the Department of 
     State and the United States Agency for International 
     Development.
       (b) Records Management and Related Cybersecurity 
     Protections.--
       (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``Diplomatic Programs'' and ``Capital 
     Investment Fund'' in title I, and ``Operating Expenses'' and 
     ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title II that are made 
     available to the Department of State and USAID may be made 
     available to support the use or establishment of email 
     accounts or email servers created outside the .gov domain or 
     not fitted for automated records management as part of a 
     Federal government records management program in 
     contravention of the Presidential and Federal Records Act 
     Amendments of 2014 (Public Law 113-187).
       (2) Directives.--The Secretary of State and USAID 
     Administrator shall--
       (A) regularly review and update the policies, directives, 
     and oversight necessary to comply with Federal statutes, 
     regulations, and presidential executive orders and memoranda 
     concerning the preservation of all records made or received 
     in the conduct of official business, including record emails, 
     instant messaging, and other online tools;
       (B) use funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Diplomatic Programs'' and ``Capital Investment Fund'' in 
     title I, and ``Operating Expenses'' and ``Capital Investment 
     Fund'' in title II, as appropriate, to improve Federal 
     records management pursuant to the Federal Records Act (44 
     U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33) and other applicable 
     Federal records management statutes, regulations, or policies 
     for the Department of State and USAID;
       (C) direct departing employees that all Federal records 
     generated by such employees, including senior officials, 
     belong to the Federal Government;
       (D) improve the response time for identifying and 
     retrieving Federal records, including requests made pursuant 
     to section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known 
     as the ``Freedom of Information Act''); and
       (E) strengthen cyber security measures to mitigate 
     vulnerabilities, including those resulting from the use of 
     personal email accounts or servers outside the .gov domain, 
     improve the process to identify and remove inactive user 
     accounts, update and enforce guidance related to the control 
     of national security information, and implement the 
     recommendations of the applicable reports of the cognizant 
     Office of Inspector General.
               use of funds in contravention of this act
       Sec. 7017. If the President makes a determination not to 
     comply with any provision of this Act on constitutional 
     grounds, the head of the relevant Federal agency shall notify 
     the Committees on Appropriations in writing within 5 days of 
     such determination, the basis for such determination and any 
     resulting changes to program and policy.
   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization
       Sec. 7018. None of the funds made available to carry out 
     part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may 
     be used to pay for the performance of abortions as a method 
     of family planning or to motivate or coerce any person to 
     practice abortions. None of the funds made available to carry 
     out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 
     may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
     sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or 
     provide any financial incentive to any person to undergo 
     sterilizations. None of the funds made available to carry out 
     part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may 
     be used to pay for any biomedical research which relates in 
     whole or in part, to methods of, or the performance of, 
     abortions or involuntary sterilization as a means of family 
     planning. None of the funds made available to carry out part 
     I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
     obligated or expended for any country or organization if the 
     President certifies that the use of these funds by any such 
     country or organization would violate any of the above 
     provisions related to abortions and involuntary 
     sterilizations.
                        allocations and reports
       Sec. 7019. (a) Allocation Tables.--Subject to subsection 
     (b), funds appropriated by this Act under titles III through 
     V shall be made available in the amounts specifically 
     designated in the respective tables included in the 
     explanatory statement described in section 3 (in the matter 
     preceding division A of this consolidated Act): Provided, 
     That such designated amounts for foreign countries and 
     international organizations shall serve as the amounts for 
     such countries and international organizations transmitted to 
     Congress in the report required by section 653(a) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (b) Authorized Deviations.--Unless otherwise provided for 
     by this Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of 
     the United States Agency for International Development, as 
     applicable, may only deviate up to 5 percent from the amounts 
     specifically designated in the respective tables included in 
     the explanatory statement described in section 3 (in the 
     matter preceding division A of this consolidated Act): 
     Provided, That such percentage may be exceeded only to 
     respond to significant, exigent, or unforeseen events, or to 
     address other exceptional circumstances directly related to 
     the national interest: Provided further, That deviations 
     pursuant to the previous proviso shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) Limitation.--For specifically designated amounts that 
     are included, pursuant to subsection (a), in the report 
     required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, no deviations authorized by subsection (b) may take 
     place until submission of such report.
       (d) Exceptions.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply 
     to--
       (1) funds for which the initial period of availability has 
     expired;
       (2) amounts designated by this Act as minimum or maximum 
     funding requirements;
       (3) funds made available for a country pursuant to section 
     7043(c) of this Act; and
       (4) funds made available by this Act under the heading 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that are made 
     available for assistance for Pakistan.
       (e) Reports.--The Secretary of State and the USAID 
     Administrator, as appropriate, shall submit the reports 
     required, in the manner described, in the report accompanying 
     this Act.
               representation and entertainment expenses
       Sec. 7020. (a) Uses of Funds.--Each Federal department, 
     agency, or entity funded in titles I or II of this Act, and 
     the Department of the Treasury and independent agencies 
     funded in titles III or VI of this Act, shall take steps to 
     ensure that domestic and overseas representation and 
     entertainment expenses further official agency business and 
     United States foreign policy interests, and--
       (1) are primarily for fostering relations outside of the 
     Executive Branch;
       (2) are principally for meals and events of a protocol 
     nature;
       (3) are not for employee-only events; and
       (4) do not include activities that are substantially of a 
     recreational character.
       (b) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by this Act under the headings 
     ``International Military Education and Training'' or 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for Informational 
     Program activities or under the headings ``Global Health 
     Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'' may be obligated or expended to pay for--
       (1) alcoholic beverages; or
       (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
     substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
     fees at sporting events, theatrical and musical productions, 
     and amusement parks.
   prohibition on assistance to governments supporting international 
                               terrorism
       Sec. 7021. (a) Lethal Military Equipment Exports.--
       (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
     otherwise made available under titles III through VI of this 
     Act may be made available to any foreign government which 
     provides lethal military equipment to a country the 
     government of which the Secretary of State has determined 
     supports international terrorism for purposes of section 6(j) 
     of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued in 
     effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
     Powers Act: Provided, That the prohibition under this section 
     with respect to a foreign government shall terminate 12 
     months after that government ceases to provide such military 
     equipment: Provided further, That this section applies with 
     respect to lethal military equipment provided under a 
     contract entered into after October 1, 1997.
       (2) Determination.--Assistance restricted by paragraph (1) 
     or any other similar provision of law, may be furnished if 
     the President determines that to do so is important to the 
     national interest of the United States.
       (3) Report.--Whenever the President makes a determination 
     pursuant to paragraph (2), the President shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations a report with respect to the 
     furnishing of such assistance, including a detailed 
     explanation of the assistance to be provided, the estimated 
     dollar amount of such assistance, and an explanation of how 
     the assistance furthers United States national interest.
       (b) Bilateral Assistance.--
       (1) Limitations.--Funds appropriated for bilateral 
     assistance in titles III through VI of this Act and funds 
     appropriated under any such title in prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, shall not be made available 
     to any foreign government which the President determines--
       (A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
     group which has committed an act of international terrorism;
       (B) otherwise supports international terrorism; or
       (C) is controlled by an organization designated as a 
     terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
       (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
     paragraph (1) to a government if the President determines 
     that national security or humanitarian reasons justify such 
     waiver: Provided, That the President shall publish each such 
     waiver in the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before 
     the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the waiver (including the justification for 
     the waiver) in accordance with the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
                       authorization requirements
       Sec. 7022. Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development 
     Agency'', may be obligated and expended notwithstanding 
     section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 
     of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
     U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 
     6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 
     1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
              definition of program, project, and activity
       Sec. 7023. For the purpose of titles II through VI of this 
     Act ``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at 
     the appropriations Act account level and shall include all 
     appropriations and authorizations Acts funding directives, 
     ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the 
     following accounts: ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance 
     for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and ``Foreign 
     Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, and 
     activity'' shall also be considered to include country, 
     regional, and central program level funding within each such 
     account; and for the development assistance accounts of the 
     United States Agency for International Development, 
     ``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered 
     to include central, country, regional, and program level 
     funding, either as--
       (1) justified to Congress; or
       (2) allocated by the Executive Branch in accordance with a 
     report, to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
     within 30 days after enactment of this Act, as required by 
     section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or as 
     modified pursuant to section 7019 of this Act.
 authorities for the peace corps, inter-american foundation and united 
                 states african development foundation
       Sec. 7024. Unless expressly provided to the contrary, 
     provisions of this or any other Act, including provisions 
     contained in prior Acts authorizing or making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, shall not be construed to prohibit activities 
     authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
     Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development 
     Foundation Act: Provided, That prior to conducting activities 
     in a country for which assistance is prohibited, the agency 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations and 
     report to such Committees within 15 days of taking such 
     action.
                commerce, trade and surplus commodities
       Sec. 7025. (a) World Markets.--None of the funds 
     appropriated or made available pursuant to titles III through 
     VI of this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
     otherwise made available to the Export-Import Bank and the 
     Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
     expended to finance any loan, any assistance, or any other 
     financial commitments for establishing or expanding 
     production of any commodity for export by any country other 
     than the United States, if the commodity is likely to be in 
     surplus on world markets at the time the resulting productive 
     capacity is expected to become operative and if the 
     assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
     producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity: 
     Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the 
     Export-Import Bank if in the judgment of its Board of 
     Directors the benefits to industry and employment in the 
     United States are likely to outweigh the injury to United 
     States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
     commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That this 
     subsection shall not prohibit--
       (1) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
     from the International Development Association, is not 
     eligible for assistance from the International Bank for 
     Reconstruction and Development, and does not export on a 
     consistent basis the agricultural commodity with respect to 
     which assistance is furnished; or
       (2) activities in a country the President determines is 
     recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, 
     or a complex emergency.
       (b) Exports.--None of the funds appropriated by this or any 
     other Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 shall be available for any testing or 
     breeding feasibility study, variety improvement or 
     introduction, consultancy, publication, conference, or 
     training in connection with the growth or production in a 
     foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which 
     would compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in 
     the United States: Provided, That this subsection shall not 
     prohibit--
       (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
     developing countries where such activities will not have a 
     significant impact on the export of agricultural commodities 
     of the United States;
       (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
     United States producers;
       (3) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
     from the International Development Association, is not 
     eligible for assistance from the International Bank for 
     Reconstruction and Development, and does not export on a 
     consistent basis the agricultural commodity with respect to 
     which assistance is furnished; or
       (4) activities in a country the President determines is 
     recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, 
     or a complex emergency.
       (c) International Financial Institutions.--The Secretary of 
     the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive 
     directors of the international financial institutions to use 
     the voice and vote of the United States to oppose any 
     assistance by such institutions, using funds appropriated or 
     made
     available by this Act, for the production or extraction of 
     any commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on 
     world markets and if the assistance will cause substantial 
     injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or 
     competing commodity.
                           separate accounts
       Sec. 7026. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
       (1) Agreements.--If assistance is furnished to the 
     government of a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of 
     part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation of 
     local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the 
     United States Agency for International Development shall--
       (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
     separate account established by that government;
       (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
     forth--
       (i) the amount of the local currencies to be generated; and
       (ii) the terms and conditions under which the currencies so 
     deposited may be utilized, consistent with this section; and
       (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
     responsibilities of USAID and that government to monitor and 
     account for deposits into and disbursements from the separate 
     account.
       (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed upon with 
     the foreign government, local currencies deposited in a 
     separate account pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent 
     amount of local currencies, shall be used only--
       (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
     part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as the case 
     may be), for such purposes as--
       (i) project and sector assistance activities; or
       (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
       (B) for the administrative requirements of the United 
     States Government.
       (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take all 
     necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of the local 
     currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from 
     the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
     (a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to 
     subsection (a)(2).
       (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon termination 
     of assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
     chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds 
     which remain in a separate account established pursuant to 
     subsection (a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may 
     be agreed to by the government of that country and the United 
     States Government.
       (5) Report.--The USAID Administrator shall report as part 
     of the congressional budget justification submitted to the 
     Committees on Appropriations on the use of local currencies 
     for the administrative requirements of the United States 
     Government as authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), and such 
     report shall include the amount of local currency (and United 
     States dollar equivalent) used or to be used for such purpose 
     in each applicable country.
       (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
       (1) In general.--If assistance is made available to the 
     government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 of 
     part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
     assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such 
     funds in a separate account and not commingle with any other 
     funds.
       (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such funds 
     may be obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of 
     law which are inconsistent with the nature of this assistance 
     including provisions which are referenced in the Joint 
     Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
     accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-
     1159).
       (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any 
     such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the 
     President shall submit a notification through the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
     which shall include a detailed description of how the funds 
     proposed to be made available will be used, with a discussion 
     of the United States interests that will be served by such 
     assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the 
     economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such 
     assistance).
       (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be 
     exempt from the requirements of paragraph (1) only through 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
                       eligibility for assistance
       Sec. 7027. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental 
     Organizations.--Restrictions contained in this or any other 
     Act with respect to assistance for a country shall not be 
     construed to restrict assistance in support of programs of 
     nongovernmental organizations from funds appropriated by this 
     Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 11, and 12 
     of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961 and from funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': 
     Provided, That before using the authority of this subsection 
     to furnish assistance in support of programs of 
     nongovernmental organizations, the President shall notify the 
     Committees on Appropriations pursuant to the regular 
     notification procedures, including a description of the 
     program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and 
     the reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, 
     That nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter 
     any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion or 
     involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other 
     Act.
       (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2019, restrictions 
     contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance 
     for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
     under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480; 7 U.S.C. 
     1721 et seq.): Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
     to carry out title I of such Act and made available pursuant 
     to this subsection may be obligated or expended except as 
     provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
       (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
     assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
     or
       (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
     assistance to the government of a country that violates 
     internationally recognized human rights.
                           local competition
       Sec. 7028. (a) Requirements for Exceptions to Competition 
     for Local Entities.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available to the United States Agency for International 
     Development may only be made available for limited 
     competitions through local entities if--
       (1) prior to the determination to limit competition to 
     local entities, USAID has--
       (A) assessed the level of local capacity to effectively 
     implement, manage, and account for programs included in such 
     competition; and
       (B) documented the written results of the assessment and 
     decisions made; and
       (2) prior to making an award after limiting competition to 
     local entities--
       (A) each successful local entity has been determined to be 
     responsible in accordance with USAID guidelines; and
       (B) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are in 
     place to ensure that award funding is used for its intended 
     purposes; and
       (3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
       (b) Report.--In addition to the requirements of subsection 
     (a)(1), the USAID Administrator shall report to the 
     appropriate congressional committees not later than 45 days 
     after the end of fiscal year 2019 on all awards subject to 
     limited or no competition for local entities: Provided, That 
     such report shall be posted on the USAID website: Provided 
     further, That the requirements of this subsection shall only 
     apply to awards in excess of $3,000,000 and sole source 
     awards to local entities in excess of $2,000,000.
       (c) Extension of Procurement Authority.--Section 7077 of 
     the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 
     112-74) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2019.
                  international financial institutions
       Sec. 7029. (a) Evaluations and Report.--The Secretary of 
     the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive 
     director of each international financial institution to seek 
     to require that such institution adopts and implements a 
     publicly available policy, including the strategic use of 
     peer reviews and external experts, to conduct independent, 
     in-depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at least 25 
     percent of all loans, grants, programs, and significant 
     analytical non-lending activities in advancing the 
     institution's goals of reducing poverty and promoting 
     equitable economic growth, consistent with relevant 
     safeguards, to ensure that decisions to support such loans, 
     grants, programs, and activities are based on accurate data 
     and objective analysis: Provided, That not later than 45 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations on steps taken in 
     fiscal year 2018 by the United States executive directors and 
     the international financial institutions consistent with this 
     subsection compared to the previous fiscal year.
       (b) Safeguards.--
       (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
     States Executive Director of the International Bank for 
     Reconstruction and Development and the International 
     Development Association to vote against any loan, grant, 
     policy, or strategy if such institution has adopted and is 
     implementing any social or environmental safeguard relevant 
     to such loan, grant, policy, or strategy that provides less 
     protection than World Bank safeguards in effect on September 
     30, 2015.
       (2) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the 
     United States executive director of each international 
     financial institution to vote against loans or other 
     financing for projects unless such projects--
       (A) provide for accountability and transparency, including 
     the collection, verification and publication of beneficial 
     ownership information related to extractive industries and 
     on-site monitoring during the life of the project;
       (B) will be developed and carried out in accordance with 
     best practices regarding environmental conservation; cultural 
     protection;
     and empowerment of local populations, including free, prior 
     and informed consent of affected indigenous communities;
       (C) do not provide incentives for, or facilitate, forced 
     displacement; and
       (D) do not partner with or otherwise involve enterprises 
     owned or controlled by the armed forces.
       (c) Compensation.--None of the funds appropriated under 
     title V of this Act may be made as payment to any 
     international financial institution while the United States 
     executive director to such institution is compensated by the 
     institution at a rate which, together with whatever 
     compensation such executive director receives from the United 
     States, is in excess of the rate provided for an individual 
     occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
     under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while 
     any alternate United States executive director to such 
     institution is compensated by the institution at a rate in 
     excess of the rate provided for an individual occupying a 
     position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 
     5316 of title 5, United States Code.
       (d) Human Rights.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     instruct the United States executive director of each 
     international financial institution to promote human rights 
     due diligence and risk management, as appropriate, in 
     connection with any loan, grant, policy, or strategy of such 
     institution in accordance with the criteria specified under 
     this subsection in Senate report 115-282: Provided, That 
     prior to voting on any such loan, grant, policy, or strategy 
     the executive director shall consult with the Assistant 
     Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department 
     of State, if the executive director has reason to believe 
     that such loan, grant, policy, or strategy could result in 
     forced displacement or other violation of human rights.
       (e) Fraud and Corruption.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
     shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
     international financial institution to promote in loan, 
     grant, and other financing agreements improvements in 
     borrowing countries' financial management and judicial 
     capacity to investigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and 
     corruption.
       (f) Beneficial Ownership Information.--The Secretary of the 
     Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director 
     of each international financial institution to seek to 
     require that such institution collects, verifies, and 
     publishes, to the maximum extent practicable, beneficial 
     ownership information (excluding proprietary information) for 
     any corporation or limited liability company, other than a 
     publicly listed company, that receives funds from any such 
     financial institution: Provided, That not later than 45 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations on steps taken in 
     fiscal year 2018 by the United States executive directors and 
     the international financial institutions consistent with this 
     subsection compared to the previous fiscal year.
       (g) Whistleblower Protections.--The Secretary of the 
     Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director 
     of each international financial institution to seek to 
     require that each such institution is effectively 
     implementing and enforcing policies and procedures which 
     reflect best practices for the protection of whistleblowers 
     from retaliation, including best practices for--
       (1) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
     public disclosure;
       (2) legal burdens of proof;
       (3) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
       (4) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
     external arbitration; and
       (5) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
     retaliation.
                          debt-for-development
       Sec. 7030. In order to enhance the continued participation 
     of nongovernmental organizations in debt-for-development and 
     debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental organization 
     which is a grantee or contractor of the United States Agency 
     for International Development may place in interest bearing 
     accounts local currencies which accrue to that organization 
     as a result of economic assistance provided under title III 
     of this Act and, subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, any interest 
     earned on such investment shall be used for the purpose for 
     which the assistance was provided to that organization.
              financial management and budget transparency
       Sec. 7031. (a) Limitation on Direct Government-to-
     Government Assistance.--
       (1) Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
     made available for direct government-to-government assistance 
     only if--
       (A)(i) each implementing agency or ministry to receive 
     assistance has been assessed and is considered to have the 
     systems required to manage such assistance and any identified 
     vulnerabilities or weaknesses of such agency or ministry have 
     been addressed;
       (ii) the recipient agency or ministry employs and utilizes 
     staff with the necessary technical, financial, and management 
     capabilities;
       (iii) the recipient agency or ministry has adopted 
     competitive procurement policies and systems;
       (iv) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are in 
     place to ensure that such assistance is used for its intended 
     purposes;
       (v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed; and
       (vi) the government of the recipient country is taking 
     steps to publicly disclose on an annual basis its national 
     budget, to include income and expenditures, that are in 
     addition to steps taken in the previous calendar year;
       (B) the recipient government is in compliance with the 
     principles set forth in section 7013 of this Act;
       (C) the recipient agency or ministry is not headed or 
     controlled by an organization designated as a foreign 
     terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
       (D) the Government of the United States and the government 
     of the recipient country have agreed, in writing, on clear 
     and achievable objectives for the use of such assistance, 
     which should be made available on a cost-reimbursable basis; 
     and
       (E) the recipient government is taking steps to protect the 
     rights of civil society, including freedoms of expression, 
     association, and assembly.
       (2) Consultation and notification.--In addition to the 
     requirements in paragraph (1), no funds may be made available 
     for direct government-to-government assistance without prior 
     consultation with, and notification of, the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That such notification shall 
     contain an explanation of how the proposed activity meets the 
     requirements of paragraph (1): Provided further, That the 
     requirements of this paragraph shall only apply to direct 
     government-to-government assistance in excess of $10,000,000 
     and all funds available for cash transfer, budget support, 
     and cash payments to individuals.
       (3) Suspension of assistance.--The Administrator of the 
     United States Agency for International Development or the 
     Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any direct 
     government-to-government assistance if the Administrator or 
     the Secretary has credible information of material misuse of 
     such assistance, unless the Administrator or the Secretary 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations that it is in the 
     national interest of the United States to continue such 
     assistance, including a justification, or that such misuse 
     has been appropriately addressed.
       (4) Submission of information.--The Secretary of State 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations, concurrent 
     with the fiscal year 2020 congressional budget justification 
     materials, amounts planned for assistance described in 
     paragraph (1) by country, proposed funding amount, source of 
     funds, and type of assistance.
       (5) Report.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
     Act and every 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2020, 
     the USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a report that--
       (A) details all assistance described in paragraph (1) 
     provided during the previous 6-month period by country, 
     funding amount, source of funds, and type of such assistance; 
     and
       (B) the type of procurement instrument or mechanism 
     utilized and whether the assistance was provided on a 
     reimbursable basis.
       (6) Debt service payment prohibition.--None of the funds 
     made available by this Act may be used by the government of 
     any foreign country for debt service payments owed by any 
     country to any international financial institution.
       (b) National Budget and Contract Transparency.--
       (1) Minimum requirements of fiscal transparency.--The 
     Secretary of State shall continue to update and strengthen 
     the ``minimum requirements of fiscal transparency'' for each 
     government receiving assistance appropriated by this Act, as 
     identified in the report required by section 7031(b) of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
       (2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1), ``minimum 
     requirements of fiscal transparency'' are requirements 
     consistent with those in subsection (a)(1), and the public 
     disclosure of national budget documentation (to include 
     receipts and expenditures by ministry) and government 
     contracts and licenses for natural resource extraction (to 
     include bidding and concession allocation practices).
       (3) Determination and report.--For each government 
     identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State, 
     not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, shall 
     make or update any determination of ``significant progress'' 
     or ``no significant progress'' in meeting the minimum 
     requirements of fiscal transparency, and make such 
     determinations publicly available in an annual ``Fiscal 
     Transparency Report'' to be posted on the Department of State 
     website: Provided, That the Secretary shall identify the 
     significant progress made by each such government to publicly 
     disclose national budget documentation, contracts, and 
     licenses which are additional to such information disclosed 
     in previous fiscal years, and include specific 
     recommendations of short- and long-term steps such government 
     should take to improve fiscal transparency: Provided further, 
     That the annual report shall include a detailed description 
     of how funds appropriated by this Act are being used to 
     improve fiscal transparency, and identify benchmarks for 
     measuring progress.
       (4) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under title III of this 
     Act shall be made available for programs and activities to 
     assist governments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
     improve budget transparency and to support civil society 
     organizations in such countries that promote budget 
     transparency: Provided, That such sums shall be in addition 
     to funds otherwise available for such purposes: Provided 
     further, That a description of the uses of such funds shall 
     be included in the annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' 
     required by paragraph (3).
       (c) Anti-Kleptocracy and Human Rights.--
       (1) Ineligibility.--
       (A) Officials of foreign governments and their immediate 
     family members about whom the Secretary of State has credible 
     information have been involved in significant corruption, 
     including corruption related to the extraction of natural 
     resources, or a gross violation of human rights shall be 
     ineligible for entry into the United States.
       (B) The Secretary shall also publicly or privately 
     designate or identify officials of foreign governments and 
     their immediate family members about whom the Secretary has 
     such credible information without regard to whether the 
     individual has applied for a visa.
       (2) Exception.--Individuals shall not be ineligible if 
     entry into the United States would further important United 
     States law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit 
     the United States to fulfill its obligations under the United 
     Nations Headquarters Agreement: Provided, That nothing in 
     paragraph (1) shall be construed to derogate from United 
     States Government obligations under applicable international 
     agreements.
       (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
     paragraph (1) with respect to an individual, and only if the 
     Secretary determines that the waiver would serve a compelling 
     national interest or that the circumstances which caused the 
     individual to be ineligible have changed sufficiently.
       (4) Report.--Not later than 6 months after enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report, 
     including a classified annex if necessary, to the Committees 
     on Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary 
     describing the information related to corruption or violation 
     of human rights concerning each of the individuals found 
     ineligible in the previous 12 months pursuant to paragraph 
     (1)(A) as well as the individuals who the Secretary 
     designated or identified pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or who 
     would be ineligible but for the application of paragraph (2), 
     a list of any waivers provided under paragraph (3), and the 
     justification for each waiver.
       (5) Posting of report.--Any unclassified portion of the 
     report required under paragraph (4) shall be posted on the 
     Department of State website.
       (6) Clarification.--For purposes of paragraphs (1)(B), (4), 
     and (5), the records of the Department of State and of 
     diplomatic and consular offices of the United States 
     pertaining to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to 
     enter the United States shall not be considered confidential.
       (d) Extraction of Natural Resources.--
       (1) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
     made available to promote and support transparency and 
     accountability of expenditures and revenues related to the 
     extraction of natural resources, including by strengthening 
     implementation and monitoring of the Extractive Industries 
     Transparency Initiative, implementing and enforcing section 
     8204 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-246; 122 Stat. 2052) and the amendments made 
     by such section, and to prevent the sale of conflict 
     diamonds, and provide technical assistance to promote 
     independent audit mechanisms and support civil society 
     participation in natural resource management.
       (2) United states policy.--
       (A) The Secretary of the Treasury shall inform the 
     management of the international financial institutions, and 
     post on the Department of the Treasury website, that it is 
     the policy of the United States to vote against any 
     assistance by such institutions (including any loan, credit, 
     grant, or guarantee) to any country for the extraction and 
     export of a natural resource if the government of such 
     country has in place laws, regulations, or procedures to 
     prevent or limit the public disclosure of company payments as 
     required by United States law, and unless such government has 
     adopted laws, regulations, or procedures in the sector in 
     which assistance is being considered for--
       (i) accurately accounting for and public disclosure of 
     payments to the host government by companies involved in the 
     extraction and export of natural resources;
       (ii) the independent auditing of accounts receiving such 
     payments and public disclosure of the findings of such 
     audits; and
       (iii) public disclosure of such documents as Host 
     Government Agreements, Concession Agreements, and bidding 
     documents, allowing in any such dissemination or disclosure 
     for the redaction of, or exceptions for, information that is 
     commercially proprietary or that would create competitive 
     disadvantage.
       (B) The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
     assistance for the purpose of building the capacity of such 
     government to meet the requirements of this subparagraph.
       (e) Foreign Assistance Website.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under titles I and II, and funds made available for any 
     independent agency in title III, as appropriate, shall be 
     made available to support the provision of additional 
     information on United States Government foreign assistance on 
     the Department of State foreign assistance website: Provided, 
     That all Federal agencies funded under this Act shall provide 
     such information on foreign assistance, upon request, to the 
     Department of State.
                           democracy programs
       Sec. 7032. (a) Funding.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'', and ``International Narcotics 
     Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than $2,400,000,000 
     shall be made available for democracy programs.
       (2) Programs.--Of the funds made available for democracy 
     programs under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
     pursuant to paragraph (1), not less than $89,540,000 shall be 
     made available to the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and 
     Labor, Department of State.
       (b) Authority.--Funds made available by this Act for 
     democracy programs may be made available notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, and with regard to the National 
     Endowment for Democracy, any regulation.
       (c) Definition of Democracy Programs.--For purposes of 
     funds appropriated by this Act, the term ``democracy 
     programs'' means programs that support good governance, 
     credible and competitive elections, freedom of expression, 
     association, assembly, and religion, human rights, labor 
     rights, independent media, and the rule of law, and that 
     otherwise strengthen the capacity of democratic political 
     parties, governments, nongovernmental organizations and 
     institutions, and citizens to support the development of 
     democratic states, and institutions that are responsive and 
     accountable to citizens.
       (d) Restriction on Prior Approval.--With respect to the 
     provision of assistance for democracy programs in this Act, 
     the organizations implementing such assistance, the specific 
     nature of that assistance, and the participants in such 
     programs shall not be subject to the prior approval by the 
     government of any foreign country: Provided, That the 
     Secretary of State, in coordination with the USAID 
     Administrator, shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations, not later than 120 days after enactment of 
     this Act, detailing steps taken by the Department of State 
     and USAID to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
       (e) Continuation of Current Practices.--USAID shall 
     continue to implement civil society and political competition 
     and consensus building programs abroad with funds 
     appropriated by this Act in a manner that recognizes the 
     unique benefits of grants and cooperative agreements in 
     implementing such programs: Provided, That nothing in this 
     paragraph shall be construed to affect the ability of any 
     entity, including United States small businesses, from 
     competing for proposals for USAID-funded civil society and 
     political competition and consensus building programs.
       (f) Informing the National Endowment for Democracy.--The 
     Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
     Department of State, and the Assistant Administrator for 
     Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, USAID, 
     shall regularly inform the National Endowment for Democracy 
     of democracy programs that are planned and supported by funds 
     made available by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs.
       (g) Protection of Civil Society Activists and 
     Journalists.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Democracy Fund'', 
     not less than $15,000,000 shall be made available for the 
     Human Rights Defenders Fund to support and protect civil 
     society activists who have been threatened, harassed, or 
     attacked, consistent with the action plan required by section 
     7032(i)(1) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
     and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of 
     Public Law 115-141): Provided, That such funds may only be 
     made available following consultation with the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
     allocated to, and administered by, the Bureau of Democracy, 
     Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, in 
     consultation, as appropriate, with relevant bureaus and 
     offices of the Department of State and USAID, and are in 
     addition to amounts otherwise made available for such 
     purposes.
                    international religious freedom
       Sec. 7033. (a) International Religious Freedom Office and 
     Special Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom.--
       (1) Operations.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' shall be made available for 
     the Office of International Religious Freedom, Bureau of 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, and 
     the Special Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom of Religious 
     Minorities in the Near East and South Central Asia, as 
     authorized in the Near East and South Central Asia Religious 
     Freedom Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-161), including for 
     support staff at not less than the amounts specified for such 
     offices in the table under such
     heading in the report accompanying this Act.
       (2) Curriculum.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Diplomatic Programs'' and designated for the Office of 
     International Religious Freedom shall be made available for 
     the development and implementation of an international 
     religious freedom curriculum in accordance with section 
     708(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
     4028(a)(2)).
       (b) Assistance.--
       (1) International religious freedom programs.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Democracy Fund'' 
     and available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund, not 
     less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     international religious freedom programs: Provided, That the 
     Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom shall 
     consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the uses of 
     such funds.
       (2) Protection and investigation programs.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     programs to protect vulnerable and persecuted religious 
     minorities: Provided, That a portion of such funds shall be 
     made available for programs to investigate the persecution of 
     such minorities by governments and non-state actors and for 
     the public dissemination of information collected on such 
     persecution, including on the Department of State website.
       (3) Humanitarian programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and 
     ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be made available 
     for humanitarian assistance for vulnerable and persecuted 
     religious minorities, including victims of genocide 
     designated by the Secretary of State and other groups that 
     have suffered crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing, 
     to--
       (A) facilitate the implementation of an immediate, 
     coordinated, and sustained response to provide humanitarian 
     assistance;
       (B) enhance protection of conflict victims, including those 
     facing a dire humanitarian crisis and severe persecution 
     because of their faith or ethnicity; and
       (C) improve access to secure locations for obtaining 
     humanitarian and resettlement services.
       (4) Transitional justice, reconciliation, and reintegration 
     programs.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available for the Relief and Recovery Fund, not less 
     than $5,000,000 shall be made available to support 
     transitional justice, reconciliation, and reintegration 
     programs for vulnerable and persecuted religious minorities, 
     including in the Middle East and North Africa regions: 
     Provided, That such funds shall be matched, to the maximum 
     extent practicable, from sources other than the United States 
     Government.
       (5) Responsibility for funds.--Funds made available by 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be the responsibility of the 
     Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, in 
     consultation with other relevant United States Government 
     officials.
       (c) International Broadcasting.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Broadcasting Board of Governors, 
     International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made 
     available for programs related to international religious 
     freedom, including reporting on the condition of vulnerable 
     and persecuted religious groups.
       (d) Funding Clarification.--Funds made available pursuant 
     to subsection (b) are in addition to amounts otherwise made 
     available for such purposes.
                           special provisions
       Sec. 7034. (a) Victims of War, Displaced Children, and 
     Displaced Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles III and VI 
     of this Act that are made available for victims of war, 
     displaced children, displaced Burmese, and to combat 
     trafficking in persons and assist victims of such 
     trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law.
       (b) Atrocities Prevention.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
     less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for programs to 
     prevent atrocities, including to implement recommendations of 
     the Atrocities Prevention Board: Provided, That the Under 
     Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, 
     Department of State, shall be responsible for providing the 
     strategic policy direction for, and policy oversight of, 
     funds made available pursuant to this subsection to the 
     Bureaus of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement 
     Affairs and Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of 
     State: Provided further, That funds made available pursuant 
     to this subsection are in addition to amounts otherwise made 
     available for such purposes: Provided further, That such 
     funds shall be subject to the regular notification procedures 
     of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) World Food Programme.--Funds managed by the Bureau for 
     Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United 
     States Agency for International Development, from this or any 
     other Act, may be made available as a general contribution to 
     the World Food Programme, notwithstanding any other provision 
     of law.
       (d) Directives and Authorities.--
       (1) Research and training.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
     Central Asia'' shall be made available to carry out the 
     Program for Research and Training on Eastern Europe and the 
     Independent States of the Former Soviet Union as authorized 
     by the Soviet-Eastern European Research and Training Act of 
     1983 (22 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.).
       (2) Genocide victims memorial sites.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance 
     for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be made available 
     as contributions to establish and maintain memorial sites of 
     genocide, subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (3) Additional authorities.--Of the amounts made available 
     by title I of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic 
     Programs'', up to $500,000 may be made available for grants 
     pursuant to section 504 of the Foreign Relations 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1979 (22 U.S.C. 2656d), 
     including to facilitate collaboration with indigenous 
     communities, and up to $1,000,000 may be made available for 
     grants to carry out the activities of the Cultural 
     Antiquities Task Force.
       (4) Innovation.--The USAID Administrator may use funds 
     appropriated by this Act under title III to make innovation 
     incentive awards: Provided, That each individual award may 
     not exceed $100,000: Provided further, That no more than 10 
     such awards may be made during fiscal year 2019: Provided 
     further, That for purposes of this paragraph the term 
     ``innovation incentive award'' means the provision of funding 
     on a competitive basis that--
       (A) encourages and rewards the development of solutions for 
     a particular, well-defined problem related to the alleviation 
     of poverty; or
       (B) helps identify and promote a broad range of ideas and 
     practices facilitating further development of an idea or 
     practice by third parties.
       (5) Exchange visitor program.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act may be used to modify the Exchange 
     Visitor Program administered by the Department of State to 
     implement the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
     1961, as amended, (Public Law 87-256; 22 U.S.C. 2451 et 
     seq.), except through the formal rulemaking process pursuant 
     to the Administrative Procedure Act and notwithstanding the 
     exceptions to such rulemaking process in such Act: Provided, 
     That funds made available for such purpose shall only be made 
     available after consultation with, and subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, 
     regarding how any proposed modification would affect the 
     public diplomacy goals of, and the estimated economic impact 
     on, the United States.
       (6) Report.--The report required by section 502(d) of the 
     Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division 
     N of Public Law 115-31; 22 U.S.C. 254a note) shall be 
     provided to the Committees on Appropriations.
       (7) Private sector partnerships.--Of the funds appropriated 
     by this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', 
     ``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic Support Fund'' 
     that are made available for private sector partnerships, up 
     to $100,000,000 may remain available until September 30, 
     2022: Provided, That funds made available pursuant to this 
     paragraph may be reprogrammed after September 30, 2021 for 
     other purposes following prior consultation with, and the 
     regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (e) Partner Vetting.--Prior to initiating a partner vetting 
     program, or making significant changes to the scope of an 
     existing partner vetting program, the Secretary of State and 
     USAID Administrator, as appropriate, shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That USAID partner 
     vetting shall be considered to meet any other requirement to 
     establish, maintain, or implement a partner vetting or 
     similar program.
       (f) Contingencies and Evacuations.--
       (1) During fiscal year 2019, the President may use up to 
     $125,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law.
       (2) Of the unobligated balances from amounts available for 
     Worldwide Security Protection under the ``Diplomatic and 
     Consular Programs'' heading in the Security Assistance 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division B of Public Law 114-254), 
     up to $301,200,000 may be used to develop and implement 
     emergency evacuation contingency plans: Provided, That such 
     amounts are designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That funds 
     made available by this paragraph shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
       (g) International Child Abductions.--The Secretary of State 
     should withhold funds appropriated under title III of this 
     Act for assistance for the central government of any country 
     that is not taking appropriate steps to comply with the 
     Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child 
     Abductions, done at the Hague on October 25, 1980: Provided, 
     That the Secretary shall report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations within 15 days of withholding funds under this 
     subsection.
       (h) Cultural Preservation Project Determination.--None of 
     the funds appropriated in titles I and III of this Act may be 
     used for the preservation of religious sites unless the 
     Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as 
     appropriate, determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such sites are historically, 
     artistically, or culturally significant, that the purpose of 
     the project is neither to advance nor to inhibit the free 
     exercise of religion, and that the project is in the national 
     interest of the United States.
       (i) Transfer of Funds for Extraordinary Protection.--The 
     Secretary of State may transfer to, and merge with, funds 
     under the heading ``Protection of Foreign Missions and 
     Officials'' unobligated balances of expired funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' for 
     fiscal year 2019, except for funds designated for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985, at no later than the end of the 
     fifth fiscal year after the last fiscal year for which such 
     funds are available for the purposes for which appropriated: 
     Provided, That not more than $50,000,000 may be transferred.
       (j) Authority to Counter Extremism.--Funds made available 
     by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' to 
     counter extremism may be made available notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law restricting assistance to foreign 
     countries, except sections 502B and 620A of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That the use of the 
     authority of this subsection shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with the appropriate congressional committees, 
     and the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (k) Protections and Remedies for Employees of Diplomatic 
     Missions and International Organizations.--Section 7034(k) of 
     the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 
     113-235) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2019.
       (l) Extension of Authorities.--
       (1) Passport fees.--Section 1(b)(2) of the Passport Act of 
     June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 214(b)(2)) shall be applied by 
     substituting ``September 30, 2019'' for ``September 30, 
     2010''.
       (2) Incentives for critical posts.--The authority contained 
     in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
     2009 (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through 
     September 30, 2019.
       (3) USAID civil service annuitant waiver.--Section 
     625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
     2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 
     2019'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).
       (4) Overseas pay comparability and limitation.--
       (A) Subject to the limitation described in subparagraph 
     (B), the authority provided by section 1113 of the 
     Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) 
     shall remain in effect through September 30, 2019.
       (B) The authority described in subparagraph (A) may not be 
     used to pay an eligible member of the Foreign Service (as 
     defined in section 1113(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
     Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32)) a locality-based comparability 
     payment (stated as a percentage) that exceeds two-thirds of 
     the amount of the locality-based comparability payment 
     (stated as a percentage) that would be payable to such member 
     under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, if such 
     member's official duty station were in the District of 
     Columbia.
       (5) Categorical eligibility.--The Foreign Operations, 
     Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     1990 (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
       (A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
       (i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 2018'' and 
     inserting ``2018, and 2019''; and
       (ii) in subsection (e), by striking ``2018'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``2019''; and
       (B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in subsection 
     (b)(2), by striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2019''.
       (6) Inspector general annuitant waiver.--The authorities 
     provided in section 1015(b) of the Supplemental 
     Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) shall remain in 
     effect through September 30, 2019.
       (7) Accountability review boards.--The authority provided 
     by section 301(a)(3) of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and 
     Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4831(a)(3)) shall remain 
     in effect for facilities in Afghanistan through September 30, 
     2019, except that the notification and reporting requirements 
     contained in such section shall include the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (8) Special inspector general for afghanistan 
     reconstruction competitive status.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, any employee of the Special Inspector 
     General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) who completes 
     at least 12 months of continuous service after the date of 
     enactment of this Act or who is employed on the date on which 
     SIGAR terminates, whichever occurs first, shall acquire 
     competitive status for appointment to any position in the 
     competitive service for which the employee possesses the 
     required qualifications.
       (9) Transfer of balances.--Section 7081(h) of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115-31) 
     shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2019.
       (m) Monitoring and Evaluation.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act that are available for monitoring and evaluation of 
     assistance under the headings ``Development Assistance'', 
     ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
     Refugee Assistance'' shall, as appropriate, be made available 
     for the regular collection of feedback obtained directly from 
     beneficiaries on the quality and relevance of such 
     assistance: Provided, That the Department of State and USAID 
     shall establish procedures for implementing partners that 
     receive funds under such headings for regularly collecting 
     and responding to such feedback, informing the Department of 
     State and USAID of such procedures, and reporting to the 
     Department of State and USAID on actions taken in response to 
     the feedback received: Provided further, That the Department 
     of State and USAID shall regularly conduct oversight to 
     ensure that such feedback is regularly collected and used by 
     implementing partners to maximize the cost-effectiveness and 
     utility of such assistance.
       (n) HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund.--Funds available in the 
     HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund established pursuant to section 
     525(b)(1) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
     Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-
     447) may be made available for pharmaceuticals and other 
     products for other global health and child survival 
     activities to the same extent as HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and 
     other products, subject to the terms and conditions in such 
     section: Provided, That the authority in section 525(b)(5) of 
     the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
     Programs Appropriation Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-447) shall 
     be exercised by the Assistant Administrator for Global 
     Health, USAID, with respect to funds deposited for such non-
     HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products, and shall be 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary of State shall include in the congressional budget 
     justification an accounting of budgetary resources, 
     disbursements, balances, and reimbursements related to such 
     fund.
       (o) Loans, Consultation, and Notification.--
       (1) Loan guarantees.--Funds appropriated under the headings 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'' by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs may be made available for 
     the costs, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
     Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for Jordan, Tunisia, 
     and Ukraine, which are authorized to be provided: Provided, 
     That amounts made available under this paragraph for the 
     costs of such guarantees shall not be considered assistance 
     for the purposes of provisions of law limiting assistance to 
     a country.
       (2) Designation requirement.--Funds made available pursuant 
     to paragraph (1) from prior Acts making appropriations for 
     the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs that were previously designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by 
     the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
     on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such 
     Act.
       (3) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
     pursuant to the authorities of this subsection shall be 
     subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
     congressional committees, and subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (p) Local Works.--
       (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available for 
     Local Works pursuant to section 7080 of the Department of 
     State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235), 
     which may remain available until September 30, 2023.
       (2) For the purposes of section 7080 of the Department of 
     State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235), 
     ``eligible entities'' shall be defined as small local, 
     international, and United States-based nongovernmental 
     organizations, educational institutions, and other small 
     entities that have received less than a total of $5,000,000 
     from USAID over the previous 5 fiscal years: Provided, That 
     departments or centers of such educational institutions may 
     be considered individually in determining such eligibility.
       (3) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     USAID Administrator shall post on the USAID website--
       (A) a description, with illustrative examples, of how Local 
     Works is used to promote locally owned and led development 
     efforts that have as their primary goal the sustainability of 
     results;
       (B) the criteria for qualifying for Local Works funding;
       (C) simple guidance for submitting proposals for Local 
     Works funding, including unsolicited proposals; and
       (D) a copy of the report and strategy required under the 
     heading ``Local Sustainability Awards Program'' in Senate 
     Report
     115-152, which shall be retitled ``Local Works''.
       (q) Department of State Inspector General Waiver 
     Authority.--The Inspector General of the Department of State 
     may waive the provisions of subsections (a) through (d) of 
     section 824 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
     4064) on a case-by-case basis for an annuitant reemployed by 
     the Inspector General on a temporary basis, subject to the 
     same constraints and in the same manner by which the 
     Secretary of State may exercise such waiver authority 
     pursuant to subsection (g) of such section.
       (r) Definitions.--
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--Unless otherwise 
     defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committees 
     on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
     Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House 
     of Representatives.
       (2) Funds appropriated by this act and prior acts.--Unless 
     otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the 
     term ``funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs'' means funds that remain 
     available for obligation, and have not expired.
       (3) International financial institutions.--In this Act 
     ``international financial institutions'' means the 
     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
     International Development Association, the International 
     Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the 
     International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the 
     Asian Development Fund, the Inter-American Investment 
     Corporation, the North American Development Bank, the 
     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African 
     Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the 
     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
       (4) Humanitarian assistance.--For purposes of funds 
     appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs that are made available for assistance for 
     Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, and Yemen, the term 
     ``humanitarian assistance'' includes creating conditions 
     where locally legitimate authorities and systems can 
     peaceably manage conflict and prevent violence.
       (5) Southern kordofan reference.--Any reference to Southern 
     Kordofan in this or any other Act making appropriations for 
     the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs shall be deemed to include portions of Western 
     Kordofan that were previously part of Southern Kordofan prior 
     to the 2013 division of Southern Kordofan.
       (6) USAID.--In this Act, the term ``USAID'' means the 
     United States Agency for International Development.
       (7) Spend plan.--In this Act, the term ``spend plan'' means 
     a plan for the uses of funds appropriated for a particular 
     entity, country, program, purpose, or account and which shall 
     include, at a minimum, a description of--
       (A) realistic and sustainable goals, criteria for measuring 
     progress, and a timeline for achieving such goals;
       (B) amounts and sources of funds by account;
       (C) how such funds will complement other ongoing or planned 
     programs; and
       (D) implementing partners, to the maximum extent 
     practicable.
       (8) Stabilization assistance.--In this Act, the term 
     ``stabilization assistance'' has the same meaning as defined 
     by the Stabilization Assistance Review in ``A Framework for 
     Maximizing the Effectiveness of U.S. Government Efforts to 
     Stabilize Conflict-Affected Areas, 2018''.
                     arab league boycott of israel
       Sec. 7035. It is the sense of the Congress that--
       (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the secondary 
     boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
     Israel, is an impediment to peace in the region and to United 
     States investment and trade in the Middle East and North 
     Africa;
       (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
     reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
     terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of Israel 
     immediately disbanded;
       (3) all Arab League states should normalize relations with 
     their neighbor Israel;
       (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
     continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott of 
     Israel and find concrete steps to demonstrate that opposition 
     by, for example, taking into consideration the participation 
     of any recipient country in the boycott when determining to 
     sell weapons to said country; and
       (5) the President should report to Congress annually on 
     specific steps being taken by the United States to encourage 
     Arab League states to normalize their relations with Israel 
     to bring about the termination of the Arab League boycott of 
     Israel, including those to encourage allies and trading 
     partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
     businesses from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
     businesses that do comply.
                         palestinian statehood
       Sec. 7036. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     provided to support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary 
     of State determines and certifies to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that--
       (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian state--
       (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to peaceful co-
     existence with the State of Israel; and
       (B) is taking appropriate measures to counter terrorism and 
     terrorist financing in the West Bank and Gaza, including the 
     dismantling of terrorist infrastructures, and is cooperating 
     with appropriate Israeli and other appropriate security 
     organizations; and
       (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing entity of a 
     new Palestinian state) is working with other countries in the 
     region to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a just, 
     lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will 
     enable Israel and an independent Palestinian state to exist 
     within the context of full and normal relationships, which 
     should include--
       (A) termination of all claims or states of belligerency;
       (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the sovereignty, 
     territorial integrity, and political independence of every 
     state in the area through measures including the 
     establishment of demilitarized zones;
       (C) their right to live in peace within secure and 
     recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force;
       (D) freedom of navigation through international waterways 
     in the area; and
       (E) a framework for achieving a just settlement of the 
     refugee problem.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the 
     rule of law, an independent judiciary, and respect for human 
     rights for its citizens, and should enact other laws and 
     regulations assuring transparent and accountable governance.
       (c) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if the 
     President determines that it is important to the national 
     security interest of the United States to do so.
       (d) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not 
     apply to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian 
     Authority and affiliated institutions, or the governing 
     entity, in order to help meet the requirements of subsection 
     (a), consistent with the provisions of section 7040 of this 
     Act (``Limitation on Assistance for the Palestinian 
     Authority'').
           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority
       Sec. 7037. None of the funds appropriated under titles II 
     through VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to create 
     in any part of Jerusalem a new office of any department or 
     agency of the United States Government for the purpose of 
     conducting official United States Government business with 
     the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any 
     successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in the 
     Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles: Provided, That this 
     restriction shall not apply to the acquisition of additional 
     space for the existing Consulate General in Jerusalem: 
     Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
     employees of the United States and officials of the 
     Palestinian Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing 
     entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
     Principles, for the purpose of conducting official United 
     States Government business with such authority should 
     continue to take place in locations other than Jerusalem: 
     Provided further, That as has been true in the past, officers 
     and employees of the United States Government may continue to 
     meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with Palestinians 
     (including those who now occupy positions in the Palestinian 
     Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
     discussions.
 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation
       Sec. 7038. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, 
     technical support, consulting services, or any other form of 
     assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.
                 assistance for the west bank and gaza
       Sec. 7039. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2019, 30 days 
     prior to the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral 
     West Bank and Gaza Program, the Secretary of State shall 
     certify to the Committees on Appropriations that procedures 
     have been established to assure the Comptroller General of 
     the United States will have access to appropriate United 
     States financial information in order to review the uses of 
     United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
       (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated 
     by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for 
     assistance for the West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State 
     shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that such 
     assistance is not provided to or through any individual, 
     private or government entity, or educational institution that 
     the Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, 
     plans, sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist 
     activity nor, with respect to private entities or educational 
     institutions, those that have as a principal officer of the 
     entity's governing board or governing board of trustees any 
     individual that has been determined to be involved in, or 
     advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a member of 
     a designated
     foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That the Secretary 
     of State shall, as appropriate, establish procedures 
     specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out this 
     subsection and shall terminate assistance to any individual, 
     entity, or educational institution which the Secretary has 
     determined to be involved in or advocating terrorist 
     activity.
       (c) Prohibition.--
       (1) Recognition of acts of terrorism.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act for 
     assistance under the West Bank and Gaza Program may be made 
     available for--
       (A) the purpose of recognizing or otherwise honoring 
     individuals who commit, or have committed acts of terrorism; 
     and
       (B) any educational institution located in the West Bank or 
     Gaza that is named after an individual who the Secretary of 
     State determines has committed an act of terrorism.
       (2) Security assistance and reporting requirement.--
     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
     made available by this or prior appropriations Acts, 
     including funds made available by transfer, may be made 
     available for obligation for security assistance for the West 
     Bank and Gaza until the Secretary of State reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been 
     established for security assistance for the West Bank and 
     Gaza and reports on the extent of Palestinian compliance with 
     such benchmarks.
       (d) Oversight by the United States Agency for International 
     Development.--
       (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development shall ensure that Federal or non-
     Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, and 
     significant subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the West 
     Bank and Gaza Program, are conducted at least on an annual 
     basis to ensure, among other things, compliance with this 
     section.
       (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act, up to $1,000,000 
     may be used by the Office of Inspector General of the United 
     States Agency for International Development for audits, 
     investigations, and other activities in furtherance of the 
     requirements of this subsection: Provided, That such funds 
     are in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
     purposes.
       (e) Comptroller General of the United States Audit.--
     Subsequent to the certification specified in subsection (a), 
     the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct an 
     audit and an investigation of the treatment, handling, and 
     uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza 
     Program, including all funds provided as cash transfer 
     assistance, in fiscal year 2019 under the heading ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', and such audit shall address--
       (1) the extent to which such Program complies with the 
     requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
       (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
     activities carried out under such Program, including both 
     obligations and expenditures.
       (f) Notification Procedures.--Funds made available in this 
     Act for West Bank and Gaza shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority
       Sec. 7040. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
     chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     may be obligated or expended with respect to providing funds 
     to the Palestinian Authority.
       (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) 
     shall not apply if the President certifies in writing to the 
     Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President pro 
     tempore of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations 
     that waiving such prohibition is important to the national 
     security interest of the United States.
       (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant 
     to subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a 
     period of 6 months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 
     months after the enactment of this Act.
       (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to 
     subsection (b) is exercised, the President shall submit a 
     report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing the 
     justification for the waiver, the purposes for which the 
     funds will be spent, and the accounting procedures in place 
     to ensure that the funds are properly disbursed: Provided, 
     That the report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian 
     Authority has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons 
     and dismantle the terrorist infrastructure.
       (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver 
     authority under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must 
     certify and report to the Committees on Appropriations prior 
     to the obligation of funds that the Palestinian Authority has 
     established a single treasury account for all Palestinian 
     Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow through 
     this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside 
     of the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a 
     single comprehensive civil service roster and payroll, and 
     the Palestinian Authority is acting to counter incitement of 
     violence against Israelis and is supporting activities aimed 
     at promoting peace, coexistence, and security cooperation 
     with Israel.
       (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
     Organization.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated in titles III through VI 
     of this Act may be obligated for salaries of personnel of the 
     Palestinian Authority located in Gaza or may be obligated or 
     expended for assistance to Hamas or any entity effectively 
     controlled by Hamas, any power-sharing government of which 
     Hamas is a member, or that results from an agreement with 
     Hamas and over which Hamas exercises undue influence.
       (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of paragraph (1), 
     assistance may be provided to a power-sharing government only 
     if the President certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such government, including all of its 
     ministers or such equivalent, has publicly accepted and is 
     complying with the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1) 
     (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
     amended.
       (3) The President may exercise the authority in section 
     620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by 
     the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-
     446) with respect to this subsection.
       (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to paragraph (2) is 
     exercised, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
     the Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
     certification and every quarter thereafter on whether such 
     government, including all of its ministers or such equivalent 
     are continuing to comply with the principles contained in 
     section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961, as amended: Provided, That the report shall also 
     detail the amount, purposes and delivery mechanisms for any 
     assistance provided pursuant to the abovementioned 
     certification and a full accounting of any direct support of 
     such government.
       (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
     VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance for the 
     Palestine Liberation Organization.
                      middle east and north africa
       Sec. 7041. (a) Egypt.--
       (1) Certification and report.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act that are available for assistance for Egypt may be made 
     available notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     restricting assistance for Egypt, except for this subsection 
     and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and 
     may only be made available for assistance for the Government 
     of Egypt if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations that such government is--
       (A) sustaining the strategic relationship with the United 
     States; and
       (B) meeting its obligations under the 1979 Egypt-Israel 
     Peace Treaty.
       (2) Economic support fund.--
       (A) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', up to $75,000,000 may 
     be made available for assistance for Egypt, of which not less 
     than $35,000,000 should be made available for higher 
     education programs including not less than $15,000,000 for 
     scholarships for Egyptian students with high financial need 
     to attend not-for-profit institutions of higher education: 
     Provided, That such funds shall be made available for 
     democracy programs, and for development programs in the 
     Sinai: Provided further, That such funds may not be made 
     available for cash transfer assistance or budget support 
     unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
     appropriate congressional committees that the Government of 
     Egypt is taking consistent and effective steps to stabilize 
     the economy and implement market-based economic reforms.
       (B) Withholding.--The Secretary of State shall withhold 
     from obligation funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Egypt, 
     an amount of such funds that the Secretary determines to be 
     equivalent to that expended by the United States Government 
     for bail, and by nongovernmental organizations for legal and 
     court fees, associated with democracy-related trials in Egypt 
     until the Secretary certifies and reports to the Committees 
     on Appropriations that the Government of Egypt has dismissed 
     the convictions issued by the Cairo Criminal Court on June 4, 
     2013, in ``Public Prosecution Case No. 1110 for the Year 
     2012'', and has not subjected the defendants to further 
     prosecution or if convicted they have been granted full 
     pardons.
       (C) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available for a 
     contribution, voluntary or otherwise, to the ``Civil 
     Associations and Foundations Support Fund'', or any similar 
     fund, established pursuant to Law 70 on Associations and 
     Other Foundations Working in the Field of Civil Work 
     published in the Official Gazette of Egypt on May 29, 2017.
       (3) Foreign military financing program.--
       (A) Certification.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', up 
     to $1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
     2020, may be made available for assistance for Egypt: 
     Provided, That such funds may be transferred to an interest 
     bearing account in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
     following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations: 
     Provided further, That $300,000,000 of such funds shall be 
     withheld from obligation until the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that the Government of Egypt is taking sustained and 
     effective steps, which are in addition to steps taken
     during the previous calendar year for such purposes, to--
       (i) advance democracy and human rights in Egypt, including 
     to govern democratically and protect religious minorities and 
     the rights of women;
       (ii) implement reforms that protect freedoms of expression, 
     association, and peaceful assembly, including the ability of 
     civil society organizations, human rights defenders, and the 
     media to function without interference;
       (iii) release political prisoners and provide other 
     detainees with due process of law;
       (iv) hold Egyptian security forces accountable, including 
     officers credibly alleged to have violated human rights;
       (v) investigate and prosecute cases of extrajudicial 
     killings and forced disappearances;
       (vi) provide regular access for United States officials to 
     monitor such assistance in all areas where the assistance is 
     used; and
       (vii) comply with United Nations Security Council 
     Resolution 2270 and other such resolutions regarding North 
     Korea:
      Provided further, That the certification requirement of this 
     paragraph shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act 
     under such heading for counterterrorism, border security, and 
     nonproliferation programs for Egypt.
       (B) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
     certification requirement in subparagraph (A) if the 
     Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that to do so is important to the national 
     security interest of the United States, and submits a report 
     to such Committees containing a detailed justification for 
     the use of such waiver and the reasons why any of the 
     requirements of subparagraph (A) cannot be met: Provided, 
     That the report required by this paragraph shall be submitted 
     in unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a classified 
     annex.
       (4) Oversight requirement.--The Secretary of State shall 
     take all practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in 
     place for monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made 
     available by this subsection for assistance for Egypt.
       (5) Report.--Not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
     appropriate congressional committees assessing the efforts by 
     the Government of Egypt to provide fair compensation to 
     American citizen April Corely for injuries and losses 
     sustained during an attack by Egyptian armed forces on her 
     tour group on September 13, 2015.
       (b) Iran.--
       (1) Funding.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Diplomatic Programs'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
     Programs'' shall be used by the Secretary of State--
       (A) to support the United States policy to prevent Iran 
     from achieving the capability to produce or otherwise obtain 
     a nuclear weapon;
       (B) to support an expeditious response to any violation of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolutions or other efforts 
     that advance Iran's nuclear program;
       (C) to support the implementation and enforcement of 
     sanctions against Iran for support of nuclear weapons 
     development, terrorism, human rights abuses, and ballistic 
     missile and weapons proliferation; and
       (D) for democracy programs for Iran, to be administered by 
     the Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs, Department 
     of State, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
       (2) Continuation of prohibition.--The terms and conditions 
     of section 7041(c)(2) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 
     (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall continue in effect 
     during fiscal year 2019.
       (3) Report.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations the semi-annual report required 
     by section 135 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 
     2160e(d)(4)), as added by section 2 of the Iran Nuclear 
     Agreement Review Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-17).
       (c) Iraq.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
     this Act shall be made available for assistance for Iraq 
     for--
       (1) bilateral economic assistance and international 
     security assistance, including for the Marla Ruzicka Iraqi 
     War Victims Fund;
       (2) stabilization assistance at not less than the amounts 
     specified for such purpose in the table under this subsection 
     in the report accompanying this Act;
       (3) humanitarian assistance, including in the Kurdistan 
     Region of Iraq; and
       (4) programs to protect and assist religious and ethnic 
     minority populations in Iraq.
       (d) Jordan.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     titles III and IV, not less than $1,525,000,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Jordan, of which: not less than 
     $1,082,400,000 shall be made available under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', of which not less than 
     $745,100,000 shall be made available for budget support for 
     the Government of Jordan; and not less than $425,000,000 
     shall be made available under the heading ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program''.
       (e) Lebanon.--
       (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be made available for the Lebanese Internal Security 
     Forces (ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if the ISF or 
     the LAF is controlled by a foreign terrorist organization, as 
     designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
       (2) Consultation.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that 
     are available for assistance for Lebanon may be made 
     available for programs and equipment for the ISF and the LAF 
     to address security and stability requirements in areas 
     affected by the conflict in Syria, following consultation 
     with the appropriate congressional committees.
       (3) Economic support fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are 
     available for assistance for Lebanon may be made available 
     notwithstanding section 1224 of the Foreign Relations 
     Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 
     U.S.C. 2346 note).
       (4) Foreign military financing program.--In addition to the 
     activities described in paragraph (2), funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'' for assistance for Lebanon may be made available 
     only to professionalize the LAF and to strengthen border 
     security and combat terrorism, including training and 
     equipping the LAF to secure Lebanon's borders, interdicting 
     arms shipments, preventing the use of Lebanon as a safe haven 
     for terrorist groups, and to implement United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 1701: Provided, That funds may 
     not be obligated for assistance for the LAF until the 
     Secretary of State submits to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a spend plan, including actions to be taken to 
     ensure equipment provided to the LAF is only used for the 
     intended purposes, except such plan may not be considered as 
     meeting the notification requirements under section 7015 of 
     this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961, and shall be submitted not later than September 1, 
     2019: Provided further, That any notification submitted 
     pursuant to such sections shall include any funds 
     specifically intended for lethal military equipment.
       (f) Libya.--
       (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III 
     and IV of this Act, not less than $30,000,000 shall be made 
     available for stabilization assistance, including border 
     security: Provided, That the limitation on the uses of funds 
     for certain infrastructure projects in section 7041(f)(2) of 
     the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 
     113-76) shall apply to such funds.
       (2) Cooperation on the september 2012 attack on united 
     states personnel and facilities.--None of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act may be made available for assistance 
     for the central Government of Libya unless the Secretary of 
     State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such government is cooperating with 
     United States Government efforts to investigate and bring to 
     justice those responsible for the attack on United States 
     personnel and facilities in Benghazi, Libya in September 
     2012: Provided, That the limitation in this paragraph shall 
     not apply to funds made available for the purpose of 
     protecting United States Government personnel or facilities.
       (g) Morocco.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that are 
     available for assistance for Morocco may only be used for the 
     purposes requested in the Congressional Budget Justification, 
     Foreign Operations, Fiscal Year 2017.
       (h) Syria.--
       (1) Non-lethal assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Peacekeeping 
     Operations'' shall be made available, notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law, for non-lethal assistance for Syria, 
     of which not less than $150,000,000, to remain available 
     until expended, shall be made available for stabilization 
     assistance.
       (2) Syrian organizations.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     that are made available for assistance for Syria shall be 
     made available, on an open and competitive basis, to continue 
     to strengthen the capability of Syrian civil society 
     organizations to address the immediate and long-term needs of 
     the Syrian people in Syria in a manner that supports the 
     sustainability of such organizations in implementing Syrian-
     led humanitarian and development programs: Provided, That 
     funds made available by this paragraph shall be administered 
     by the Bureau for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
     Department of State.
       (3) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     for assistance for Syria may be made available for a project 
     or activity that supports or otherwise legitimizes the 
     Government of Iran, foreign terrorist organizations (as 
     designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189)), or a proxy of Iran in 
     Syria.
       (4) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
     pursuant to this subsection may only be made available 
     following consultation with the appropriate congressional 
     committees, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (i) Tunisia.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III 
     and IV of this Act, not less
     than $165,400,000 shall be made available for assistance for 
     Tunisia.
       (j) West Bank and Gaza.--
       (1) Report on assistance.--Prior to the initial obligation 
     of funds made available by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the West Bank 
     and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that the purpose of such 
     assistance is to--
       (A) advance Middle East peace;
       (B) improve security in the region;
       (C) continue support for transparent and accountable 
     government institutions;
       (D) promote a private sector economy; or
       (E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
       (2) Limitations.--
       (A)(i) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be made available 
     for assistance for the Palestinian Authority, if after the 
     date of enactment of this Act--
       (I) the Palestinians obtain the same standing as member 
     states or full membership as a state in the United Nations or 
     any specialized agency thereof outside an agreement 
     negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians; or
       (II) the Palestinians initiate an International Criminal 
     Court (ICC) judicially authorized investigation, or actively 
     support such an investigation, that subjects Israeli 
     nationals to an investigation for alleged crimes against 
     Palestinians.
       (ii) The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
     clause (i) of this subparagraph resulting from the 
     application of subclause (I) of such clause if the Secretary 
     certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so 
     is in the national security interest of the United States, 
     and submits a report to such Committees detailing how the 
     waiver and the continuation of assistance would assist in 
     furthering Middle East peace.
       (B)(i) The President may waive the provisions of section 
     1003(1) and (2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
     Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) if the 
     President determines and certifies in writing to the Speaker 
     of the House of Representatives, the President pro tempore of 
     the Senate, and the appropriate congressional committees that 
     it is important to the national security interest of the 
     United States or the conduct of diplomacy: Provided, That 
     such waiver shall be effective for no more than a period of 
     six months at a time.
       (ii) Upon written certification to the Speaker of the House 
     of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, 
     and the appropriate congressional committees, the President 
     may waive the provisions of section 1003(3) of Public Law 
     100-204.
       (3) Private sector partnership programs.--
       (A) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' not less than 
     $50,000,000 shall be made available, following consultation 
     with the Committees on Appropriations, for assistance for the 
     West Bank and Gaza to--
       (i) promote the integration of the Palestinian economy into 
     the international business system through private sector 
     engagement between Palestinian entrepreneurs and businesses 
     and the private sector in the United States, Europe, and the 
     Middle East; and
       (ii) support exchanges, cooperation, dialogue, shared 
     community-building, and reconciliation between Palestinians 
     and Israelis.
       (B) Administration of funds.--Funds made available pursuant 
     to subparagraph (A) shall be administered by the United 
     States Agency for International Development, and may be made 
     available for a Palestinian Partnership Fund to be 
     established and managed by USAID: Provided, That the USAID 
     Administrator shall seek additional contributions for such 
     Fund from other international donors, including from the 
     Middle East.
       (C) Limitations.--None of the funds made available pursuant 
     to subparagraph (A) may be made available for--
       (i) assistance for the Palestinian Authority; and
       (ii) assistance for any individual or group that the USAID 
     Administrator, in consultation with the heads of relevant 
     Federal agencies, determines to be involved in, or 
     advocating, terrorist activity or a member of a foreign 
     terrorist organization, as designated pursuant to section 219 
     of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
       (4) Security report.--The reporting requirements in section 
     1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 
     110-252) shall apply to funds made available by this Act, 
     including a description of modifications, if any, to the 
     security strategy of the Palestinian Authority.
       (5) Obligations and disbursements.--Not later than 45 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     detailing assistance for the West Bank and Gaza appropriated 
     in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs by fiscal 
     year, account, and program that are withheld from obligation 
     or disbursement, the specific reason for such withholding, 
     and the impact of such withholding on the welfare of the 
     Palestinian people and the national interests of the United 
     States, Israel, and Jordan: Provided, That such report shall 
     also include a description of any policy review on assistance 
     for the West Bank and Gaza undertaken by the Department of 
     State, USAID, or any other Federal entity, including the date 
     on which the review was initiated, the participants in the 
     review, any consultations by such participants with foreign 
     or nongovernmental entities, and the findings of the review, 
     if concluded.
       (k) Western Sahara.--Funds appropriated under title III of 
     this Act shall be made available for assistance for the 
     Western Sahara: Provided, That not later than 90 days after 
     enactment of this Act and prior to the obligation of such 
     funds, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the USAID 
     Administrator, shall consult with the Committees on 
     Appropriations on the planned uses of such funds: Provided 
     further, That nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
     change the policy of the United States to support the United 
     Nations-led process to monitor the ceasefire and bring about 
     a peaceful, sustainable, and mutually agreed upon solution 
     for the Western Sahara.
       (l) Yemen.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
     shall be made available for stabilization assistance for 
     Yemen.
                                 africa
       Sec. 7042. (a) African Great Lakes Region Assistance 
     Restriction.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``International Military Education and Training'' for 
     the central government of a country in the African Great 
     Lakes region may be made available only for Expanded 
     International Military Education and Training and 
     professional military education until the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that such government is not facilitating or otherwise 
     participating in destabilizing activities in a neighboring 
     country, including aiding and abetting armed groups.
       (b) Central African Republic.--Funds made available by this 
     Act for assistance for the Central African Republic shall be 
     made available for reconciliation and peacebuilding programs, 
     including activities to promote inter-faith dialogue at the 
     national and local levels, and for programs to prevent crimes 
     against humanity.
       (c) Ethiopia.--
       (1) Forced evictions.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
     assistance for Ethiopia may not be made available for any 
     activity that supports forced evictions.
       (2) Consultation.--Programs and activities to improve 
     livelihoods shall include prior consultation with, and the 
     participation of, affected communities, including in the 
     South Omo and Gambella regions.
       (d) Lake Chad Basin Countries.--
       (1) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
     of this Act shall be made available, following consultation 
     with the Committees on Appropriations, for assistance for 
     Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria for--
       (A) democracy, development, and global health programs;
       (B) assistance for individuals who are targeted by foreign 
     terrorist organizations, including Boko Haram, consistent 
     with the provisions of section 7059 of this Act;
       (C) assistance for individuals displaced by violent 
     conflict; and
       (D) counterterrorism programs.
       (2) Personnel.--Funds appropriated under the headings 
     ``Operating Expenses'' in title II and ``Development 
     Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'' in title III of 
     this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     shall be made available to increase the number of United 
     States Agency for International Development personnel, 
     including contractors, in Cameroon, Chad, and Niger, 
     including to establish or increase the size of each 
     respective USAID mission, as applicable, to effectively 
     manage democracy and development programs made available 
     pursuant to this Act: Provided, That not later than 180 days 
     after enactment of this Act, the USAID Administrator, in 
     consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit a 
     report to the appropriate congressional committees detailing 
     steps taken as of such date, and steps planned to be taken, 
     to increase the presence of USAID personnel, including United 
     States Direct Hire personnel, in Cameroon, Chad, and Niger.
       (e) Counter Lord's Resistance Army.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     programs and activities in areas affected by the Lord's 
     Resistance Army (LRA) consistent with the goals of the Lord's 
     Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act 
     of 2009 (Public Law 111-172), including to improve physical 
     access, telecommunications infrastructure, and early-warning 
     mechanisms and to support the disarmament, demobilization, 
     and reintegration of former LRA combatants, especially child 
     soldiers.
       (f) South Sudan.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available for assistance for the central Government of 
     South Sudan may only be made available, following 
     consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, for--
       (1) humanitarian assistance;
       (2) assistance to support South Sudan peace negotiations or 
     to advance or implement a peace agreement; and
       (3) assistance to support implementation of outstanding 
     issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and mutual 
     arrangements related to such agreement:
      Provided, That funds appropriated by this Act for assistance 
     for South Sudan that are
     made available for peacebuilding and conflict mitigation 
     shall be made available at not less than the fiscal year 2017 
     levels: Provided further, That prior to the initial 
     obligation of funds made available pursuant to paragraphs (2) 
     and (3), the Secretary of State shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations on the intended uses of such 
     funds and steps taken by such government to advance or 
     implement a peace agreement.
       (g) Sudan.--
       (1) Limitations.--
       (A) Assistance.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
     law, none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for assistance for the Government of Sudan.
       (B) Loans.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be made available for the cost, as defined in section 502 of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans and 
     loan guarantees held by the Government of Sudan, including 
     the cost of selling, reducing, or canceling amounts owed to 
     the United States, and modifying concessional loans, 
     guarantees, and credit agreements.
       (2) Exclusions.--The limitations of paragraph (1) shall not 
     apply to--
       (A) humanitarian assistance;
       (B) assistance for democracy programs;
       (C) assistance for the Darfur region, Southern Kordofan 
     State, Blue Nile State, other marginalized areas and 
     populations in Sudan, and Abyei; and
       (D) assistance to support implementation of outstanding 
     issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, mutual 
     arrangements related to post-referendum issues associated 
     with such Agreement, or any other internationally recognized 
     viable peace agreement in Sudan.
       (h) Zimbabwe.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
     available for assistance for Zimbabwe following consultation 
     with the appropriate congressional committees: Provided, That 
     such funds may only be made available for assistance for the 
     central Government of Zimbabwe if the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to such committees that such Government 
     has--
       (1) restored the rule of law, including respect for 
     ownership and title to property, and freedoms of expression, 
     association, and assembly;
       (2) taken steps to publicly disclose revenues from the 
     extraction of natural resources; and
       (3) held free and fair presidential and parliamentary 
     elections:
      Provided further, That the limitation of the previous 
     proviso shall not apply to funds made available for health 
     and education programs.
                       east asia and the pacific
       Sec. 7043. (a) Burma.--
       (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--
       (A) Economic support fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance 
     for Burma may be made available notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, except for this subsection, and following 
     consultation with the appropriate congressional committees.
       (B) Uses.--Funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
     for assistance for Burma--
       (i) shall be made available to strengthen civil society 
     organizations in Burma and for programs to strengthen 
     independent media;
       (ii) shall be made available for community-based 
     organizations operating in Thailand to provide food, medical, 
     and other humanitarian assistance to internally displaced 
     persons in eastern Burma, in addition to assistance for 
     Burmese refugees from funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'';
       (iii) shall be made available for programs to promote 
     ethnic and religious tolerance and to combat gender-based 
     violence, including in Rakhine, Shan, Kachin, and Karen 
     states;
       (iv) shall be made available to promote rural economic 
     development in Burma, including through microfinance 
     programs;
       (v) shall be made available to increase opportunities for 
     foreign direct investment by strengthening the rule of law, 
     transparency, and accountability;
       (vi) shall be made available for programs to investigate 
     and document allegations of ethnic cleansing and other gross 
     violations of human rights committed against the Rohingya 
     people in Rakhine state: Provided, That such funds shall be 
     made available for civil society organizations in Bangladesh 
     and Burma for such purposes: Provided further, That prior to 
     the obligation of such funds, the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, 
     shall ensure the establishment of a standard documentation 
     format and documentation procedures for use by such 
     organizations, and shall identify an appropriate repository 
     for such information: Provided further, That such sums shall 
     be in addition to funds otherwise made available for such 
     purposes;
       (vii) shall be made available for programs to investigate 
     and document allegations of gross violations of human rights 
     committed in Burma, particularly in areas of conflict: 
     Provided, That such funds shall be made available for civil 
     society and international organizations, including those in 
     countries bordering Burma;
       (viii) may not be made available to any individual or 
     organization if the Secretary of State has credible 
     information that such individual or organization has 
     committed a gross violation of human rights, including 
     against Rohingya and other minority groups, or that advocates 
     violence against ethnic or religious groups or individuals in 
     Burma;
       (ix) may not be made available to any organization or 
     entity controlled by the armed forces of Burma;
       (x) may be made available for ethnic groups and civil 
     society in Burma to help sustain ceasefire agreements and 
     further prospects for reconciliation and peace, which may 
     include support to representatives of ethnic armed groups for 
     this purpose; and
       (xi) may only be made available for programs to support the 
     return of Rohingya, Karen, and other refugees and internally 
     displaced persons to their locations of origin or preference 
     in Burma if such returns are voluntary and consistent with 
     international law.
       (2) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
     Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
     Burma: Provided, That the Department of State may continue 
     consultations with the armed forces of Burma only on human 
     rights and disaster response in a manner consistent with the 
     prior fiscal year, and following consultation with the 
     appropriate congressional committees.
       (3) Certification and waiver.--
       (A) Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection, of 
     the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available for 
     assistance for Burma, 15 percent may not be obligated until 
     the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Burma--
       (i) has terminated military cooperation with North Korea;
       (ii) is respecting human rights and the rule of law, 
     including the arrest and prosecution of journalists;
       (iii) is revising, updating, or repealing colonial-era and 
     other oppressive laws that are used in such prosecutions, 
     including the Unlawful Associations Act; and
       (iv) is credibly investigating the murder of U Ko Ni, and 
     is taking steps to protect and defend the security and safety 
     of other activists.
       (B) The Secretary of State may waive the requirements of 
     this paragraph if the Secretary determines and reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that do so is in the national 
     interest.
       (4) Programs, position, and responsibilities.--
       (A) Any new program or activity in Burma initiated in 
     fiscal year 2019 shall be subject to prior consultation with 
     the appropriate congressional committees.
       (B) Section 7043(b)(7) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect 
     during fiscal year 2019.
       (C) The United States Chief of Mission in Burma, in 
     consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, 
     Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, shall be 
     responsible for democracy and human rights programs in Burma.
       (b) Cambodia.--
       (1) Assistance.--
       (A) None of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available for assistance for the Government of Cambodia 
     may be obligated or expended unless the Secretary of State 
     certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that such Government is taking effective steps to--
       (i) strengthen regional security and stability, 
     particularly regarding territorial disputes in the South 
     China Sea and the enforcement of international sanctions with 
     respect to North Korea; and
       (ii) respect the rights and responsibilities enshrined in 
     the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia as enacted in 
     1993, including through the--
       (I) restoration of the civil and political rights of the 
     opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party, media, and civil 
     society organizations;
       (II) restoration of all elected officials to their elected 
     offices; and
       (III) release of all political prisoners, including 
     journalists, civil society activists, and members of the 
     opposition political party.
       (B) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act for 
     assistance for Cambodia shall be made available for--
       (i) democracy programs, including research and education 
     programs associated with the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, except 
     that no funds for such purposes may be made available to the 
     Extraordinary Chambers in the Court of Cambodia; and
       (ii) programs in the Khmer language to counter the 
     influence of the People's Republic of China in Cambodia.
       (C) Section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
     shall be deemed to apply to funds appropriated by this Act 
     and made available for assistance for Cambodia, except the 
     Secretary of State may waive the requirement of this 
     paragraph if the Secretary certifies and reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Cambodia 
     has held free and fair elections.
       (2) Visa restriction.--Funds appropriated under title I of 
     this Act shall be made available to continue to implement the 
     policy announced by the Department of State on December 6, 
     2017, to restrict the issuance of
     visas to enter the United States to individuals involved in 
     undermining democracy in Cambodia, including the family 
     members of such individuals, as appropriate: Provided, That 
     not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of State shall submit a report to the appropriate 
     congressional committees describing the implementation of 
     such policy.
       (c) Indo-Pacific Strategy.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs, not less than $160,000,000 shall be made available 
     for democracy; economic governance and trade; natural 
     resource security, energy, and governance; and, law 
     enforcement and security programs to support the 
     implementation of the Indo-Pacific Strategy, as follows--
       (1) $65,000,000 under the heading ``Development 
     Assistance'';
       (2) $50,000,000 under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'';
       (3) $30,000,000 under the heading ``International Narcotics 
     Control and Law Enforcement''; and
       (4) $15,000,000 under the heading ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program'':
      Provided, That such funds are in addition to amounts 
     otherwise made available for such purposes.
       (d) Laos.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
     Related Programs'', not less than $40,000,000 shall be made 
     available to continue to clear unexploded ordnance in Laos.
       (e) North Korea.--
       (1) Cybersecurity.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
     of State, foreign operations, and related programs may be 
     made available for assistance for the central government of a 
     country the Secretary of State determines and reports to the 
     appropriate congressional committees engages in significant 
     transactions contributing materially to the malicious cyber-
     intrusion capabilities of the Government of North Korea: 
     Provided, That the Secretary of State shall submit the report 
     required by section 209 of the North Korea Sanctions and 
     Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-122; 22 U.S.C. 
     9229), as amended, to the Committees on Appropriations in the 
     manner described in subparagraph (2)(A) of such section: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary of State may waive the 
     application of the restriction in this paragraph with respect 
     to assistance for the central government of a country if the 
     Secretary determines and reports to the appropriate 
     congressional committees that to do so is important to the 
     national security interest of the United States, including a 
     description of such interest served.
       (2) Broadcasts.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be 
     made available to maintain broadcasting hours into North 
     Korea at levels not less than the prior fiscal year.
       (3) Refugees.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' should be made 
     available for assistance for refugees from North Korea, 
     including protection activities in the People's Republic of 
     China and other countries in Asia.
       (4) Human rights promotion, database, and limitation on use 
     of funds.--
       (A) Human rights promotion.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
     ``Democracy Fund'', not less than $8,000,000 shall be made 
     available for the promotion of human rights in North Korea: 
     Provided, That such funds shall be administered by the 
     Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
     Department of State: Provided further, That the authority of 
     section 7032(b) of this Act shall apply to such funds.
       (B) Database.--Funds appropriated by this Act under title 
     III shall be made available to maintain a database of prisons 
     and gulags in North Korea, in accordance with section 7032(i) 
     of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 
     113-76).
       (C) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made 
     available for assistance for the Government of North Korea.
       (f) People's Republic of China.--
       (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' in 
     this Act may be obligated or expended for processing licenses 
     for the export of satellites of United States origin 
     (including commercial satellites and satellite components) to 
     the People's Republic of China (PRC) unless, at least 15 days 
     in advance, the Committees on Appropriations are notified of 
     such proposed action.
       (2) People's liberation army.--The terms and requirements 
     of section 620(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall 
     apply to foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
     People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the PRC, to include such 
     projects or activities by any entity that is owned or 
     controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA: Provided, That 
     none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
     pursuant to this Act may be used to finance any grant, 
     contract, or cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any 
     entity that the Secretary of State has reason to believe is 
     owned or controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
       (3) Counter influence programs.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act for public diplomacy under title I and for assistance 
     under titles III and IV shall be made available to counter 
     the influence of the PRC, in accordance with the strategy 
     required by section 7043(e)(3) of the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76), following 
     consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
       (4) Authority and notification requirement.--
       (A) Authority.--The uses of funds made available by this 
     Act for the promotion of democracy in the PRC, except for 
     funds made available under subsection (f), shall be the 
     responsibility of the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, 
     Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
       (B) Notification.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
     made available for trilateral programs conducted with the PRC 
     shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (g) Philippines.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``International Narcotics Control and 
     Law Enforcement'' may be made available for counternarcotics 
     assistance for the Philippines, except for drug demand 
     reduction, maritime law enforcement, or transnational 
     interdiction.
       (h) Tibet.--
       (1) Financing of projects in tibet.--The Secretary of the 
     Treasury should instruct the United States executive director 
     of each international financial institution to use the voice 
     and vote of the United States to support financing of 
     projects in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives 
     for the migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet 
     or facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and 
     natural resources to non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough 
     needs-assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Tibetan 
     people and respect Tibetan culture and traditions, and are 
     subject to effective monitoring.
       (2) Programs for tibetan communities.--
       (A) Tibet autonomous region.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
     $8,000,000 shall be made available to nongovernmental 
     organizations to support activities which preserve cultural 
     traditions and promote sustainable development, education, 
     and environmental conservation in Tibetan communities in the 
     Tibet Autonomous Region and in other Tibetan communities in 
     China.
       (B) India and nepal.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
     $6,000,000 shall be made available for programs to promote 
     and preserve Tibetan culture, development, and the resilience 
     of Tibetan communities in India and Nepal, and to assist in 
     the education and development of the next generation of 
     Tibetan leaders from such communities: Provided, That such 
     funds are in addition to amounts made available in 
     subparagraph (A) for programs inside Tibet.
       (C) Tibetan governance.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less 
     than $3,000,000 shall be made available for programs to 
     strengthen the capacity of Tibetan institutions and 
     governance.
       (i) Vietnam.--
       (1) Dioxin remediation.--Notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
     $20,000,000 shall be made available for activities related to 
     the remediation of dioxin contaminated sites in Vietnam and 
     may be made available for assistance for the Government of 
     Vietnam, including the military, for such purposes.
       (2) Health and disability programs.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Development 
     Assistance'', not less than $12,500,000 shall be made 
     available for health and disability programs in areas sprayed 
     with Agent Orange and otherwise contaminated with dioxin, to 
     assist individuals with severe upper or lower body mobility 
     impairment or cognitive or developmental disabilities.
       (3) Unexploded ordnance.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
     Demining and Related Programs'', not less than $15,000,000 
     shall be made available to clear unexploded ordnance (UXO) in 
     Vietnam, including to conduct UXO surveys.
       (4) Forensic assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
     available for assistance for Vietnam, not less than 
     $2,500,000 shall be made available for forensic assistance 
     related to the identification of remains from conflict, 
     regardless of the affiliation of such remains with North or 
     South Vietnam.
       (5) Fulbright university vietnam.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Educational and 
     Cultural Exchange Programs'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
     Fulbright University Vietnam, which shall not be used for 
     construction activities.
                         south and central asia
       Sec. 7044. (a) Afghanistan.--
       (1) Operations.--
       (A) Embassy branch office.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     and prior Acts making
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs under the heading 
     ``Diplomatic Programs'' and ``Embassy Security, Construction, 
     and Maintenance'' may be made available to reestablish and 
     maintain one or more Embassy Branch Offices in Afghanistan, 
     following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations 
     and subject to the regular notification procedures of such 
     Committees.
       (B) Embassy air.--The requirements of section 7052(c) of 
     this Act relating to reimbursement for aircraft use by 
     Federal and non-Federal personnel supporting Department of 
     State and United States Agency for International Development 
     programs and activities in Afghanistan may include less than 
     full cost recovery if the Secretary of State determines and 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such action 
     is important to safeguard the welfare and security of United 
     States personnel in Afghanistan.
       (2) Assistance and transfer of funds.--Funds appropriated 
     under titles III and IV of this Act shall be made available 
     to implement the South Asia Strategy, the Revised Strategy 
     for United States Engagement in Afghanistan, and the United 
     States Agency for International Development Country 
     Development Cooperation Strategy for Afghanistan: Provided, 
     That funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available for the 
     Fulbright program for Afghanistan shall be transferred to, 
     and merged with, funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
     under the heading ``Educational and Cultural Exchange 
     Programs''.
       (3) Oversight and anti-corruption activities.--
       (A) Oversight.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act and 
     prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Afghanistan, up 
     to $2,800,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     appropriated in title II of this Act under the heading 
     ``Office of Inspector General'' for audits, investigations, 
     and other activities for the purposes of conducting effective 
     oversight of assistance for Afghanistan: Provided, That any 
     such funds transferred are in addition to funds otherwise 
     available for such purposes.
       (B) Anti-corruption activities.--
       (i) Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available 
     for assistance for Afghanistan may not be made available to 
     any Afghan individual, organization, or government entity if 
     the Secretary of State has credible information that such 
     individual, organization, or entity is knowingly involved in 
     acts of grand corruption, illicit narcotics production or 
     trafficking, or has committed a gross violation of human 
     rights: Provided, That such requirement shall not apply to 
     any United States citizen or lawful permanent resident 
     associated with such organization or entity.
       (ii) The Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
     Reconstruction shall update the assessment of the 
     implementation of the Afghanistan National Strategy for 
     Combatting Corruption by the Government of Afghanistan, 
     including efforts to prosecute individuals alleged to be 
     involved in corrupt or illegal activities.
       (4) Taxation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     for assistance for Afghanistan may be made available for 
     direct government-to-government assistance unless the 
     Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that--
       (A) the United States Government and the Government of 
     Afghanistan have in place the agreements necessary to ensure 
     compliance with the principles set forth in section 7013 of 
     this Act; and
       (B) United States companies and organizations that are 
     implementing United States assistance programs in Afghanistan 
     in a manner consistent with United States laws and 
     regulations are not subjected by the Government of 
     Afghanistan to taxes or other fees in contravention of the 
     agreements referenced in subparagraph (A), and are not 
     subjected to retaliation by the Government of Afghanistan for 
     the nonpayment of such taxes or fees imposed in the past: 
     Provided, That not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations an assessment of the dollar value of improper 
     taxes or fees levied by such government against such 
     companies and organizations in fiscal year 2018.
       (5) Authorities.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under title III through 
     VI that are made available for assistance for Afghanistan may 
     be made available--
       (i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this Act or any similar 
     provision of law and section 660 of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961;
       (ii) for reconciliation programs and disarmament, 
     demobilization, and reintegration activities for former 
     combatants who have renounced violence against the Government 
     of Afghanistan, including in accordance with section 
     7046(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 
     (division I of Public Law 112-74), except that no such funds 
     may be made available for direct monetary payment to 
     demobilized combatants; and
       (B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall apply to funds 
     appropriated by this Act for assistance for Afghanistan.
       (6) Prior acts.--Funds appropriated by prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs and made available for 
     assistance for Afghanistan shall be made available pursuant 
     to this subsection.
       (7) Afghan allies.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
     Afghan Special Immigrant Visa program is important to the 
     national interests of the United States, and that the 
     Department of State should develop a system of prioritization 
     for the processing of Afghan Special Immigrant Visas.
       (b) Nepal.--
       (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III 
     and IV of this Act, not less than $121,730,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Nepal, including for earthquake 
     recovery and reconstruction programs.
       (2) Foreign military financing program.--Funds appropriated 
     by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'' shall only be made available for humanitarian and 
     disaster relief and reconstruction activities in Nepal, and 
     in support of international peacekeeping operations: 
     Provided, That such funds may only be made available for any 
     additional uses if the Secretary of State certifies and 
     reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
     Government of Nepal is investigating and prosecuting 
     violations of human rights and the laws of war, and the Nepal 
     Army is cooperating fully with civilian judicial authorities 
     in such cases.
       (c) Pakistan.--
       (1) International security assistance.--
       (A) Limitation.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for assistance 
     for Pakistan may be made available only to support 
     counterterrorism and counterinsurgency capabilities in 
     Pakistan.
       (B) Consultation.--Not later than 30 days after enactment 
     of this Act, and prior to the submission of the report 
     required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961, the Secretary of State shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations on the amount of funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military 
     Financing Program'' that is anticipated to be subject to the 
     January 2018 policy decision of the United States to suspend 
     security assistance for Pakistan, or any subsequent policy 
     decision affecting such assistance: Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall promptly inform the appropriate congressional 
     committees in writing of any changes to such policy, the 
     justification for such changes, and the progress made by the 
     Government of Pakistan in meeting the counterterrorism 
     objectives described under this section in Senate report 115-
     282.
       (C) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated by this Act and 
     prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for assistance for 
     Pakistan that are withheld from obligation or expenditure by 
     the Department of State may be reprogrammed by the Secretary 
     of State, except that no such funds may be reprogrammed that 
     are required to complete payment on existing and previously 
     approved contracts: Provided, That such reprogramming shall 
     be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (2) Bilateral economic assistance report.--Prior to the 
     obligation of funds made available by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the 
     central Government of Pakistan, the Secretary of State shall 
     submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees 
     detailing--
       (A) the amount of financing and other support, if any, 
     provided by the Government of Pakistan to schools supported 
     by, affiliated with, or run by the Taliban or any domestic or 
     foreign terrorist organization in Pakistan;
       (B) the extent of cooperation by such government in issuing 
     visas in a timely manner for United States visitors, 
     including officials and representatives of nongovernmental 
     organizations, engaged in assistance and security programs in 
     Pakistan;
       (C) the extent to which such government is providing 
     humanitarian organizations access to detainees, internally 
     displaced persons, and other Pakistani civilians affected by 
     conflict in Pakistan and the region; and
       (D) the extent to which such government is strengthening 
     democracy in Pakistan.
       (3) Authority and uses of funds.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act for assistance for 
     Pakistan may be made available notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law, except for section 620M of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961.
       (B) Funds appropriated by this Act for assistance for 
     Pakistan that are made available for infrastructure projects 
     shall be implemented in a manner consistent with section 
     507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2467(6)).
       (C) The authorities and directives of section 7044(d)(4) of 
     the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
     Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 
     113-235) regarding scholarships for women shall apply to 
     funds appropriated by this Act for assistance for Pakistan, 
     following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
       (D) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining
     and Related Programs'' that are made available for assistance 
     for Pakistan shall be made available to interdict precursor 
     materials from Pakistan to Afghanistan that are used to 
     manufacture improvised explosive devices and for agriculture 
     extension programs that encourage alternative fertilizer use 
     among Pakistani farmers to decrease the dual use of 
     fertilizer in the manufacturing of improvised explosive 
     devices.
       (E) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' that 
     are made available for assistance for Pakistan, not less than 
     $15,000,000 shall be made available for border security 
     programs in Pakistan, following consultation with the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (F) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available for 
     assistance for Pakistan, not less than $19,500,000 shall be 
     transferred to, and merged with, funds made available in 
     title I of this Act under the heading ``Educational and 
     Cultural Exchange Programs'' for the Fulbright program for 
     Pakistan: Provided, That such transfer and merge shall take 
     place not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act.
       (4) Withholding.--Of the funds appropriated under titles 
     III and IV of this Act that are made available for assistance 
     for Pakistan, $33,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation 
     until the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that Dr. Shakil Afridi has been released from 
     prison and cleared of all charges relating to the assistance 
     provided to the United States in locating Osama bin Laden.
       (5) Prohibition on entry.--Section 7031(c) of this Act 
     shall be applied to officials of the Government of Pakistan 
     about whom the Secretary of State has credible information 
     have been involved in the wrongful imprisonment of Aasiya 
     Noreen, known as Asia Bibi, who was sentenced to death for 
     allegedly violating Pakistani blasphemy laws.
       (d) Sri Lanka.--
       (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--Of the funds 
     appropriated under title III of this Act, not less than 
     $35,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Sri 
     Lanka for economic development and democracy programs, 
     particularly in areas recovering from ethnic and religious 
     conflict: Provided, That such funds shall be made available 
     for programs to assist in the identification and resolution 
     of cases of missing persons.
       (2) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
     assistance for the central Government of Sri Lanka, except 
     for funds made available for humanitarian assistance and 
     victims of trauma, may be made available only if the 
     Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that the Government of Sri Lanka is--
       (A) repealing laws that do not comply with international 
     standards for arrest and detention by security forces, and 
     ensuring that any successor legislation meets such standards;
       (B) increasing accountability and transparency in 
     governance;
       (C) investigating allegations of arbitrary arrest and 
     torture, and supporting a credible justice mechanism in 
     compliance with United Nations Human Rights Council 
     Resolution (A/HCR/RES/30/1) of October 2015;
       (D) returning military occupied lands in former conflict 
     zones to their rightful owners or compensating those whose 
     land was confiscated without due process, and which is in 
     addition to steps taken during the previous calendar year;
       (E) establishing a functioning office of missing persons 
     and assisting its investigations of cases of missing persons 
     from Sri Lanka's internal armed conflicts with the 
     cooperation of the armed forces of Sri Lanka; and
       (F) substantially reducing the presence of the armed forces 
     in former conflict zones and implementing a plan for 
     restructuring the armed forces to adopt a peacetime role that 
     contributes to post-conflict reconciliation and regional 
     security.
       (3) International security assistance.--Funds appropriated 
     under title IV of this Act that are available for assistance 
     for Sri Lanka shall be subject to the following conditions--
       (A) funds under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'' may only be made available for programs to support 
     humanitarian and disaster response preparedness and maritime 
     security, including professionalization and training for the 
     navy and coast guard; and
       (B) funds under the heading ``Peacekeeping Operations'' may 
     only be made available for training and equipment related to 
     international peacekeeping operations and improvements to 
     peacekeeping-related facilities, and only if the Government 
     of Sri Lanka is taking effective steps to bring to justice 
     Sri Lankan peacekeeping troops who have engaged in sexual 
     exploitation and abuse.
       (e) Regional Programs.--
       (1) Cross border programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance 
     for Afghanistan and Pakistan may be provided, notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law that restricts assistance to 
     foreign countries, for cross border stabilization and 
     development programs between Afghanistan and Pakistan, or 
     between either country and the Central Asian countries.
       (2) Security and justice programs.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act that are made available for assistance for countries 
     in South and Central Asia shall be made available to 
     accelerate the recruitment and enhance the retention and 
     professionalism of women in the judiciary, police, and other 
     security forces.
                    latin america and the caribbean
       Sec. 7045. (a) Central America.--Of the funds appropriated 
     under titles III and IV of this Act, $515,465,000 should be 
     made available for assistance for countries in Central 
     America to implement the United States Strategy for 
     Engagement in Central America: Provided, That such funds 
     shall be provided under the same terms and conditions 
     contained in section 7045(a) of the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2018 (division K of Public Law 115-141), except that--
       (1) no funds shall be made available for the Award for 
     Extraordinary Progress; and
       (2) the funding limitation of this subsection and similar 
     limitations in prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     shall not apply to funds made available for humanitarian, 
     food security, and anti-corruption programs for countries in 
     Central America.
       (b) Colombia.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III 
     and IV of this Act, not less than $391,253,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Colombia: Provided, That such 
     funds shall be provided under the same terms and conditions 
     contained in section 7045(b) of the Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2018 (division K of Public Law 115-141).
       (c) Cuba.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
     shall be made available for democracy programs for Cuba.
       (d) Haiti.--The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to 
     purchase defense articles and services under the Arms Export 
     Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for the Coast Guard.
       (e) Mexico.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available 
     for assistance for Mexico, not less than $18,000,000 shall be 
     transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
     and made available to process the asylum applications of 
     Central Americans in Mexico: Provided, That of such funds, 
     not less than $3,000,000 shall be made available for 
     assistance to improve the capacity of the Comision Mexicana 
     de Ayuda a Refugiados to process such applications: Provided 
     further, That not less than 30 days after enactment of this 
     Act, the Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Population, 
     Refugees, and Migration, Department of State, shall consult 
     with the Committees on Appropriations on the uses of such 
     funds.
       (f) Venezuela.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
     $20,000,000 shall be made available for programs to promote 
     democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela.
                           europe and eurasia
       Sec. 7046. (a) Assistance.--
       (1) Georgia.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     titles III and IV, not less than $125,325,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Georgia.
       (2) Ukraine.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
     titles III and IV, not less than $425,700,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for Ukraine.
       (b) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     may be made available for assistance for a government of an 
     Independent State of the former Soviet Union if such 
     government directs any action in violation of the territorial 
     integrity or national sovereignty of any other Independent 
     State of the former Soviet Union, such as those violations 
     included in the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That except as 
     otherwise provided in section 7067(a) of this Act, funds may 
     be made available without regard to the restriction in this 
     subsection if the President determines that to do so is in 
     the national security interest of the United States: Provided 
     further, That prior to executing the authority contained in 
     the previous proviso, the Secretary of State shall consult 
     with the Committees on Appropriations on how such assistance 
     supports the national security interest of the United States.
       (c) Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act.--Section 907 of 
     the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5812 note) shall not apply 
     to--
       (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
     title V of the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5851 et seq.) 
     and section 1424 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass 
     Destruction Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2333) or non-proliferation 
     assistance;
       (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
     Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 (22 U.S.C. 2421);
       (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
     States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
     or her official capacity;
       (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
     assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
     Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
       (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
     of 1945 (Public Law 79-173); or
       (6) humanitarian assistance.
       (d) Turkey.--
       (1) Prolonged detention of united states citizens in 
     turkey.--The Secretary of State shall identify senior 
     officials of the Government of Turkey with respect to whom 
     the Secretary has credible information are knowingly 
     responsible for the wrongful or unlawful prolonged detention 
     of citizens or nationals of the United States currently held 
     in Turkey: Provided, That the Secretary may not issue to any 
     such officials a visa to enter the United States: Provided 
     further, That the restriction in this paragraph shall not 
     apply to individuals described in section 7031(c)(2) of this 
     Act: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
     application of this paragraph if the Secretary determines and 
     reports to the appropriate congressional committees that to 
     do so is in the national interest or that the circumstances 
     which caused the individual or individuals to be denied a 
     visa have sufficiently changed: Provided further, That not 
     later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
     of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees the report regarding Americans held under wrongful 
     or unlawful prolonged detention in Turkey under this heading 
     in Senate report 115-282, in classified form if necessary.
       (2) Turkish presidential protection directorate.--None of 
     the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
     facilitate or support the sale of defense articles or defense 
     services to the Turkish Presidential Protection Directorate 
     (TPPD) under chapter 2 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
     U.S.C. 2761 et seq.), unless the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the appropriate congressional 
     committees that members of the TPPD that are named in the 
     July 17, 2017 indictment by the Superior Court of the 
     District of Columbia, and against whom charges are pending, 
     have returned to the United States to stand trial in 
     connection with the offenses contained in such indictment or 
     have otherwise been brought to justice: Provided, That the 
     limitation in this paragraph shall not apply to the use of 
     fund made available by this Act for border security purposes, 
     for North Atlantic Treaty Organization or coalition 
     operations, or to enhance the protection of United States 
     officials and facilities in Turkey.
       (3) Restriction on funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
     or otherwise made available by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, may be made available to 
     transfer, or to facilitate the transfer of, F-35 aircraft to 
     Turkey, including any defense articles or services related to 
     such aircraft, until the Secretary of State certifies to the 
     appropriate congressional committees that the Government of 
     Turkey is not purchasing the S-400 missile defense system 
     from Russia and will not accept the delivery of such system.
                          war crimes tribunals
       Sec. 7047. (a) If the President determines that doing so 
     will contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding 
     genocide or other violations of international humanitarian 
     law, the President may direct a drawdown pursuant to section 
     552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of up to 
     $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
     Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the 
     former Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or 
     such other tribunals or commissions as the Council may 
     establish or authorize to deal with such violations, without 
     regard to the ceiling limitation contained in paragraph (2) 
     thereof: Provided, That the determination required under this 
     section shall be in lieu of any determinations otherwise 
     required under section 552(c): Provided further, That funds 
     made available pursuant to this section shall be made 
     available subject to the regular notification procedures of 
     the Committees on Appropriations.
       (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for a United States contribution to the 
     International Criminal Court: Provided, That funds may be 
     made available for technical assistance, training, assistance 
     for victims, protection of witnesses, and law enforcement 
     support related to international investigations, 
     apprehensions, prosecutions, and adjudications of genocide, 
     crimes against humanity, and war crimes: Provided further, 
     That the previous proviso shall not apply to American service 
     members and other United States citizens or nationals, or to 
     nationals of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or 
     major non-NATO allies initially designated pursuant to 
     section 517(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
                             united nations
       Sec. 7048. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--
       (1) Restrictions.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the headings ``Contributions to International 
     Organizations'' and ``International Organizations and 
     Programs'' that are available for contributions to the United 
     Nations (including the Department of Peacekeeping 
     Operations), any United Nations agency, or the Organization 
     of American States, 15 percent may not be obligated for such 
     organization, department, or agency until the Secretary of 
     State determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that the organization, department, or agency 
     is--
       (A) posting on a publicly available website, consistent 
     with privacy regulations and due process, regular financial 
     and programmatic audits of such organization, department, or 
     agency, and providing the United States Government with 
     necessary access to such financial and performance audits;
       (B) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
     procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
     whistleblowers from retaliation, including best practices 
     for--
       (i) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
     public disclosures;
       (ii) legal burdens of proof;
       (iii) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
       (iv) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
     external arbitration; and
       (v) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
     retaliation; and
       (C) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
     procedures on the appropriate use of travel funds, including 
     restrictions on first class and business class travel.
       (2) Waiver.--The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to 
     paragraph (1) may be waived on a case-by-case basis if the 
     Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
     on Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to prevent or 
     respond to a humanitarian crisis.
       (b) Restrictions on United Nations Delegations and 
     Organizations.--
       (1) Restrictions on united states delegations.--None of the 
     funds made available by this Act may be used to pay expenses 
     for any United States delegation to any specialized agency, 
     body, or commission of the United Nations if such agency, 
     body, or commission is chaired or presided over by a country, 
     the government of which the Secretary of State has 
     determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1) of the Export 
     Administration Act of 1979 as continued in effect pursuant to 
     the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
     App. 2405(j)(1)), supports international terrorism.
       (2) Restrictions on contributions.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act may be used by the Secretary of State 
     as a contribution to any organization, agency, commission, or 
     program within the United Nations system if such 
     organization, agency, commission, or program is chaired or 
     presided over by a country the government of which the 
     Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 
     620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 of the 
     Arms Export Control Act, section 6(j)(1) of the Export 
     Administration Act of 1979, or any other provision of law, is 
     a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of 
     international terrorism.
       (3) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
     restriction in this subsection if the Secretary determines 
     and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that to do so 
     is in the national interest of the United States, including a 
     description of the national interest served.
       (c) United Nations Relief and Works Agency.--Not later than 
     45 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
     shall submit a report in writing to the Committees on 
     Appropriations on whether UNRWA is--
       (1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in the West Bank, 
     Gaza, and other fields of operation to inspect UNRWA 
     installations and reporting any inappropriate use;
       (2) acting promptly to address any staff or beneficiary 
     violation of its own policies (including the policies on 
     neutrality and impartiality of employees) and the legal 
     requirements under section 301(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961;
       (3) implementing procedures to maintain the neutrality of 
     its facilities, including implementing a no-weapons policy, 
     and conducting regular inspections of its installations, to 
     ensure they are only used for humanitarian or other 
     appropriate purposes;
       (4) taking necessary and appropriate measures to ensure it 
     is operating in compliance with the conditions of section 
     301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and continuing 
     regular reporting to the Department of State on actions it 
     has taken to ensure conformance with such conditions;
       (5) taking steps to ensure the content of all educational 
     materials currently taught in UNRWA-administered schools and 
     summer camps is consistent with the values of human rights, 
     dignity, and tolerance and does not induce incitement;
       (6) not engaging in operations with financial institutions 
     or related entities in violation of relevant United States 
     law, and is taking steps to improve the financial 
     transparency of the organization; and
       (7) in compliance with the United Nations Board of 
     Auditors' biennial audit requirements and is implementing in 
     a timely fashion the Board's recommendations.
       (d) Prohibition of Payments to United Nations Members.--
     None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
     titles III through VI of this Act for carrying out the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used to pay in whole 
     or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of any member 
     of the United Nations or, from funds appropriated by this Act 
     to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961, the costs for participation of another country's 
     delegation at international conferences held under the 
     auspices of multilateral or international organizations.
       (e) Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of this 
     Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
     Committees on Appropriations detailing the amount of funds 
     available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019 
     for contributions to any organization, department, agency, or
     program within the United Nations system or any international 
     program that are withheld from obligation or expenditure due 
     to any provision of law: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
     update such report each time additional funds are withheld by 
     operation of any provision of law: Provided further, That the 
     reprogramming of any withheld funds identified in such 
     report, including updates thereof, shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
       (f) Sexual Exploitation and Abuse in Peacekeeping 
     Operations.--
       (1) In general.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
     made available to implement section 301 of the Department of 
     State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-323).
       (2) Withholding of funds.--The Secretary of State should 
     withhold assistance to any unit of the security forces of a 
     foreign country if the Secretary has credible information 
     that such unit has engaged in sexual exploitation or abuse, 
     including while serving in a United Nations peacekeeping 
     operation, until the Secretary determines that the government 
     of such country is taking effective steps to hold the 
     responsible members of such unit accountable and to prevent 
     future incidents: Provided, That the Secretary shall promptly 
     notify the government of each country subject to any 
     withholding of assistance pursuant to this paragraph, and 
     shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of such 
     withholding not later than 10 days after a determination to 
     withhold such assistance is made: Provided further, That the 
     Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, assist 
     such government in bringing the responsible members of such 
     unit to justice.
       (g) Additional Availability.--Funds appropriated under 
     titles I and V of this Act which are returned or not made 
     available due to the implementation of subsection (a) or the 
     second proviso under the heading ``Contributions for 
     International Peacekeeping Activities'' of such title shall 
     remain available for obligation until September 30, 2020.
       (h) National Security Interest Withholding.--
       (1) Withholding.--The Secretary of State shall withhold 5 
     percent of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Contributions to International Organizations'' for 
     a specialized agency or other entity of the United Nations if 
     the Secretary, in consultation with the United States 
     Ambassador to the United Nations, determines and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations that such agency or entity 
     has taken an official action that is against the national 
     security interest of the United States or an ally of the 
     United States, including Israel.
       (2) Release of funds.--The Secretary of State, in 
     consultation with the United States Ambassador to the United 
     Nations, may release funds withheld pursuant to paragraph (1) 
     if the Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that such agency or entity is taking steps to 
     address the action that resulted in the withholding of such 
     funds.
       (3) Reprogramming.--Should the Secretary of State be unable 
     to make a determination pursuant to paragraph (2) regarding 
     the release of withheld funds, such funds may be reprogrammed 
     for other purposes under the heading ``Contributions to 
     International Organizations''.
       (4) Waiver.--The Secretary of State, following consultation 
     with the Committees on Appropriations, may waive the 
     requirements of this subsection if the Secretary determines 
     that to do so in the national interest.
       (i) Limitation on Availability of Funds for International 
     Organizations and Programs.--Subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
     funds appropriated under titles I and III through V of this 
     Act, which are returned or not made available for 
     organizations and programs because of the implementation of 
     section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall 
     remain available for obligation until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That the requirement to withhold funds for programs 
     in Burma under section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
     of 1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
                      law enforcement and security
       Sec. 7049. (a) Assistance.--
       (1) Community-based police assistance.--Funds made 
     available under titles III and IV of this Act to carry out 
     the provisions of chapter 1 of part I and chapters 4 and 6 of 
     part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, 
     notwithstanding section 660 of that Act, to enhance the 
     effectiveness and accountability of civilian police authority 
     through training and technical assistance in human rights, 
     the rule of law, anti-corruption, strategic planning, and 
     through assistance to foster civilian police roles that 
     support democratic governance, including assistance for 
     programs to prevent conflict, respond to disasters, address 
     gender-based violence, and foster improved police relations 
     with the communities they serve.
       (2) Combat casualty care.--
       (A) Consistent with the objectives of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act, funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Peacekeeping 
     Operations'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' shall 
     be made available for combat casualty training and equipment.
       (B) The Secretary of State shall offer combat casualty care 
     training and equipment as a component of any package of 
     lethal assistance funded by this Act with funds appropriated 
     under the headings ``Peacekeeping Operations'' and ``Foreign 
     Military Financing Program'': Provided, That the requirement 
     of this subparagraph shall apply to a country in conflict, 
     unless the Secretary determines that such country has in 
     place, to the maximum extent practicable, functioning combat 
     casualty care treatment and equipment that meets or exceeds 
     the standards recommended by the Committee on Tactical Combat 
     Casualty Care: Provided further, That any such training and 
     equipment for combat casualty care shall be made available 
     through an open and transparent process.
       (3) Forensic assistance.--
       (A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be 
     made available for forensic anthropology assistance related 
     to the exhumation and identification of victims of war 
     crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide, which shall be 
     administered by the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
     Rights, and Labor, Department of State: Provided, That such 
     funds shall be in addition to funds made available by this 
     Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
     of State, foreign operations, and related programs for 
     assistance for countries.
       (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
     less than $2,000,000 shall be made available for DNA forensic 
     technology programs to combat human trafficking in Central 
     America and Mexico.
       (4) Foreign military sales and foreign military financing 
     program.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for the general costs 
     of administering military assistance and sales shall be made 
     available to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of 
     programs authorized by Chapter 2 of the Arms Export Control 
     Act: Provided, That prior to the obligation of funds for such 
     purposes, the Secretary of State shall consult with the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (5) Training related to international humanitarian law.--
     Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Foreign 
     Military Financing Program'' and ``Peacekeeping Operations'' 
     that are made available for lethal assistance shall include 
     an offer by the Secretary of State for training related to 
     the requirements of international humanitarian law as a 
     component of such assistance, except that this paragraph 
     shall not apply to a country that--
       (A) is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
     (NATO);
       (B) is a major non-NATO ally initially designated pursuant 
     to section 517(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; or
       (C) the Secretary of State determines is complying with 
     international humanitarian law.
       (6) Security force professionalization.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' and ``Peacekeeping 
     Operations'', not less than $15,000,000 shall be made 
     available to increase the capacity of foreign security forces 
     to operate in accordance with appropriate standards for human 
     rights and the protection of civilians: Provided, That such 
     funds shall be made available to increase partner capacity to 
     collect, track, and analyze civilian casualty data caused by 
     such operations, including to apply lessons learned to future 
     operations, and to enhance investigate capacity and 
     transparent accountability mechanisms: Provided further, That 
     such funds shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (b) Authorities.--
       (1) Reconstituting civilian police authority.--In providing 
     assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
     660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for 
     a nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean 
     support for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-
     national entity emerging from instability, as well as a 
     nation emerging from instability.
       (2) Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration.--
     Section 7034(d) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
     (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect 
     during fiscal year 2019.
       (3) International prison conditions.--Section 7065 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
     shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2019: Provided, 
     That of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
     less than $5,000,000 shall be made available to implement 
     such section.
       (4) Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.--
       (A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense 
     Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011) 
     is amended by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2020''.
       (B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``and 
     2019'' and inserting ``2019, and 2020''.
       (5) Public disclosure.--For the purposes of funds 
     appropriated by this Act and prior
     Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs that are made 
     available for assistance for units of foreign security 
     forces, the term ``to the maximum extent practicable'' in 
     section 620M(d)(7) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
     U.S.C. 2378d) means that the identify of such units shall be 
     made publicly available unless such disclosure would endanger 
     the safety of human sources or reveal sensitive intelligence 
     sources and methods.
       (c) Limitations.--
       (1) Child soldiers.--Funds appropriated by this Act should 
     not be used to support any military training or operations 
     that include child soldiers.
       (2) Landmines and cluster munitions.--
       (A) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     demining equipment available to the United States Agency for 
     International Development and the Department of State and 
     used in support of the clearance of landmines and unexploded 
     ordnance for humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on a 
     grant basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms and 
     conditions as the Secretary of State may prescribe.
       (B) Cluster munitions.--No military assistance shall be 
     furnished for cluster munitions, no defense export license 
     for cluster munitions may be issued, and no cluster munitions 
     or cluster munitions technology shall be sold or transferred, 
     unless--
       (i) the submunitions of the cluster munitions, after 
     arming, do not result in more than 1 percent unexploded 
     ordnance across the range of intended operational 
     environments, and the agreement applicable to the assistance, 
     transfer, or sale of such cluster munitions or cluster 
     munitions technology specifies that the cluster munitions 
     will only be used against clearly defined military targets 
     and will not be used where civilians are known to be present 
     or in areas normally inhabited by civilians; or
       (ii) such assistance, license, sale, or transfer is for the 
     purpose of demilitarizing or permanently disposing of such 
     cluster munitions.
       (3) Crowd control items.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     should not be used for tear gas, small arms, light weapons, 
     ammunition, or other items for crowd control purposes for 
     foreign security forces that use excessive force to repress 
     peaceful expression, association, or assembly in countries 
     that the Secretary of State determines are undemocratic or 
     are undergoing democratic transitions.
       (d) Reports.--
       (1) Vetting report.--
       (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of 
     this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
     appropriate congressional committees on foreign assistance 
     cases submitted for vetting for purposes of section 620M of 
     the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 during the preceding 
     fiscal year, including--
       (i) the total number of cases submitted, approved, 
     suspended, or rejected for human rights reasons; and
       (ii) for cases rejected, a description of the steps taken 
     to assist the foreign government in taking effective measures 
     to bring the responsible members of the security forces to 
     justice, in accordance with section 620M(c) of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961.
       (B) Form.--The report required by this paragraph shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a 
     classified annex.
       (2) Annual foreign military training report.--For the 
     purposes of implementing section 656 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, the term ``military training provided 
     to foreign military personnel by the Department of Defense 
     and the Department of State'' shall be deemed to include all 
     military training provided by foreign governments with funds 
     appropriated to the Department of Defense or the Department 
     of State, except for training provided by the government of a 
     country designated by section 517(b) of such Act as a major 
     non-NATO ally.
                          disability programs
       Sec. 7050. (a) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made 
     available for programs and activities administered by the 
     United States Agency for International Development to address 
     the needs and protect and promote the rights of people with 
     disabilities in developing countries, including initiatives 
     that focus on independent living, economic self-sufficiency, 
     advocacy, education, employment, transportation, sports, and 
     integration of individuals with disabilities, including for 
     the cost of translation.
       (b) Management, Oversight, and Technical Support.--Of the 
     funds made available pursuant to this section, 5 percent may 
     be used for USAID for management, oversight, and technical 
     support.
                       international conferences
       Sec. 7051. None of the funds made available in this Act may 
     be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more 
     than 50 employees of agencies or departments of the United 
     States Government who are stationed in the United States, at 
     any single international conference occurring outside the 
     United States, unless the Secretary of State reports to the 
     Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that 
     such attendance is important to the national interest: 
     Provided, That for purposes of this section the term 
     ``international conference'' shall mean a conference attended 
     by representatives of the United States Government and of 
     foreign governments, international organizations, or 
     nongovernmental organizations.
                aircraft transfer, coordination, and use
       Sec. 7052. (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding any 
     other provision of law or regulation, aircraft procured with 
     funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs under the headings 
     ``Diplomatic Programs'', ``International Narcotics Control 
     and Law Enforcement'', ``Andean Counterdrug Initiative'', and 
     ``Andean Counterdrug Programs'' may be used for any other 
     program and in any region.
       (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in 
     subsection (a) shall apply only after the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that the equipment is no longer required to meet programmatic 
     purposes in the designated country or region: Provided, That 
     any such transfer shall be subject to prior consultation 
     with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
       (1) Authority.--The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by 
     the Department of State and the United States Agency for 
     International Development with funds made available in this 
     Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
     coordinated under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
     Mission: Provided, That such aircraft may be used to 
     transport, on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, 
     Federal and non-Federal personnel supporting Department of 
     State and USAID programs and activities: Provided further, 
     That official travel for other agencies for other purposes 
     may be supported on a reimbursable basis, or without 
     reimbursement when traveling on a space available basis: 
     Provided further, That funds received by the Department of 
     State in connection with the use of aircraft owned, leased, 
     or chartered by the Department of State may be credited to 
     the Working Capital Fund of the Department and shall be 
     available for expenses related to the purchase, lease, 
     maintenance, chartering, or operation of such aircraft.
       (2) Scope.--The requirement and authorities of this 
     subsection shall only apply to aircraft, the primary purpose 
     of which is the transportation of personnel.
       (d) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum 
     extent practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, 
     including fuel, of aircraft funded by this Act shall be borne 
     by the recipient country.
   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments
       Sec. 7053. The terms and conditions of section 7055 of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
     shall apply to this Act: Provided, That the date ``September 
     30, 2009'' in subsection (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be 
     deemed to be ``September 30, 2018''.
                           arms trade treaty
       Sec. 7054. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty 
     until the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for 
     the Treaty.
                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda
       Sec. 7055. No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within 
     the United States not authorized before the date of the 
     enactment of this Act by Congress: Provided, That not to 
     exceed $25,000 may be made available to carry out the 
     provisions of section 316 of the International Security and 
     Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533; 22 
     U.S.C. 2151a note).
                 commercial leasing of defense articles
       Sec. 7056. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
     subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) 
     of the Arms Export Control Act may be used to provide 
     financing to Israel, Egypt, the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (NATO), and major non-NATO allies for the 
     procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option to 
     purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial 
     suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment (other than 
     helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
     civilian application), if the President determines that there 
     are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons 
     for those defense articles being provided by commercial lease 
     rather than by government-to-government sale under such Act.
     united states agency for international development management
       Sec. 7057. (a) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds 
     made available in title III of this Act pursuant to or to 
     carry out the provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
     Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under the heading 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be 
     used by the United States Agency for International 
     Development to hire and employ individuals in the United 
     States and overseas on a limited appointment basis pursuant 
     to the authority of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign 
     Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3948 and 3949).
       (b) Restrictions.--
       (1) The number of individuals hired in any fiscal year 
     pursuant to the authority contained in subsection (a) may not 
     exceed 175.
       (2) The authority to hire individuals contained in 
     subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2020.
       (c) Conditions.--The authority of subsection (a) should 
     only be used to the extent that an equivalent number of 
     positions that are filled by personal services contractors or 
     other non-direct hire employees of USAID, who are compensated 
     with funds appropriated to carry out part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', are eliminated.
       (d) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the 
     cost of an individual hired and employed under the authority 
     of this section shall be the account to which the 
     responsibilities of such individual primarily relate: 
     Provided, That funds made available to carry out this section 
     may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by 
     this Act in title II under the heading ``Operating 
     Expenses''.
       (e) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired 
     and employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act 
     or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs, pursuant to 
     the authority of section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 
     1980 (22 U.S.C. 3949), may be extended for a period of up to 
     4 years notwithstanding the limitation set forth in such 
     section.
       (f) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under 
     title III of this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, including funds appropriated under 
     the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', may be used, in addition to funds otherwise available 
     for such purposes, for the cost (including the support costs) 
     of individuals detailed to or employed by USAID whose primary 
     responsibility is to carry out programs in response to 
     natural disasters, or man-made disasters subject to the 
     regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (g) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part 
     II, and section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     and title II of the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480; 7 
     U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may be used by USAID to employ up to 40 
     personal services contractors in the United States, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose 
     of providing direct, interim support for new or expanded 
     overseas programs and activities managed by the agency until 
     permanent direct hire personnel are hired and trained: 
     Provided, That not more than 15 of such contractors shall be 
     assigned to any bureau or office: Provided further, That such 
     funds appropriated to carry out title II of the Food for 
     Peace Act (Public Law 83-480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may be 
     made available only for personal services contractors 
     assigned to the Office of Food for Peace.
       (h) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award 
     indefinite-quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this 
     Act, USAID may provide an exception to the fair opportunity 
     process for placing task orders under such contracts when the 
     order is placed with any category of small or small 
     disadvantaged business.
       (i) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--
     Individuals hired pursuant to the authority provided by 
     section 7059(o) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 
     (division F of Public Law 111-117) may be assigned to or 
     support programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made 
     available in this Act and prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs.
                        global health activities
       Sec. 7058. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated under titles 
     III and IV of this Act that are made available for global 
     health programs including activities relating to research on, 
     and the prevention, treatment and control of, HIV/AIDS may be 
     made available notwithstanding any other provision of law 
     except for provisions under the heading ``Global Health 
     Programs'' and the United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, 
     Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 22 
     U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended: Provided, That of the funds 
     appropriated under title III of this Act, not less than 
     $595,050,000 shall be made available for family planning and 
     reproductive health activities, including in areas where 
     population growth threatens biodiversity and endangered 
     species.
       (b) Global Fund.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     that are available for a contribution to the Global Fund to 
     Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), 10 
     percent should be withheld from obligation until the 
     Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
     on Appropriations that the Global Fund is--
       (1) maintaining and implementing a policy of transparency, 
     including the authority of the Global Fund Office of the 
     Inspector General (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public 
     website;
       (2) providing sufficient resources to maintain an 
     independent OIG that--
       (A) reports directly to the Board of the Global Fund;
       (B) maintains a mandate to conduct thorough investigations 
     and programmatic audits, free from undue interference; and
       (C) compiles regular, publicly published audits and 
     investigations of financial, programmatic, and reporting 
     aspects of the Global Fund, its grantees, recipients, sub-
     recipients, and Local Fund Agents;
       (3) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
     procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
     whistleblowers from retaliation, including best practices 
     for--
       (A) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
     public disclosures;
       (B) legal burdens of proof;
       (C) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
       (D) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
     external arbitration; and
       (E) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
     retaliation:
      Provided, That such withholding shall not be in addition to 
     funds that are withheld from the Global Fund in fiscal year 
     2019 pursuant to the application of any other provision 
     contained in this or any other Act.
       (c) Contagious Infectious Disease Outbreaks.--
       (1) Extraordinary measures.--If the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that an international infectious disease outbreak is 
     sustained, severe, and is spreading internationally, or that 
     it is in the national interest to respond to a Public Health 
     Emergency of International Concern, funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', 
     ``Development Assistance'', ``International Disaster 
     Assistance'', ``Complex Crises Fund'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
     and Central Asia'', ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and 
     ``Millennium Challenge Corporation'' may be made available to 
     combat such infectious disease or public health emergency, 
     and may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     appropriated under such headings for the purposes of this 
     paragraph.
       (2) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available by 
     this subsection shall be subject to prior consultation with 
     the appropriate congressional committees, and the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (d) Repurposed Funds.--
       (1) Uses.--Of the unobligated balances available under the 
     heading ``Bilateral Economic Assistance'' in title IX of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235)--
       (A) $27,450,000 shall be for programs to accelerate the 
     capabilities of targeted countries to prevent, detect, and 
     respond to infectious disease outbreaks; and
       (B) the remaining balances shall be made available for the 
     Emergency Reserve Fund established pursuant to section 
     7058(c)(1) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
     and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of 
     Public Law 115-31) and shall be made available under the same 
     terms and conditions of such section: Provided, That the 
     second proviso of such paragraph is amended by striking 
     ``Secretary of State'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
     ``Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
     Development''.
       (2) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available by 
     this subsection shall be subject to prior consultation with, 
     and the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
       (3) Transfer between accounts.--Funds made available 
     pursuant to this subsection under the headings ``Global 
     Health Programs'' and ``International Disaster Assistance'' 
     may be transferred to, and merged with, funds made available 
     under such headings: Provided, That such transfer authority 
     is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by 
     law.
       (4) Designation.--The amounts repurposed under this 
     subsection are designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates all such amounts and transmits such designations 
     to the Congress.
                            gender equality
       Sec. 7059. (a) Gender Equality.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act shall be made available to promote gender equality in 
     United States Government diplomatic and development efforts 
     by raising the status, increasing the participation, and 
     protecting the rights of women and girls worldwide.
       (b) Women's Leadership.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
     III of this Act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made 
     available for programs specifically designed to increase 
     leadership opportunities for women in countries where women 
     and girls suffer discrimination due to law, policy, or 
     practice, by strengthening protections for women's political 
     status, expanding women's participation in political parties 
     and elections, and increasing women's opportunities for 
     leadership positions in the public and private sectors at the 
     local, provincial, and national levels.
       (c) Gender-Based Violence.--
       (1)(A) Of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
     this Act, not less than $150,000,000 shall be made available 
     to implement a multi-year strategy to prevent and respond to 
     gender-based violence in countries where it is common in 
     conflict and non-conflict settings.
       (B) Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act 
     that are available to train foreign police, judicial, and 
     military personnel, including for international peacekeeping 
     operations, shall address, where appropriate, prevention and 
     response to gender-based violence and trafficking in persons, 
     and shall promote the integration of women into the police 
     and other security forces.
       (2) Department of State and United States Agency for 
     International Development gender programs shall incorporate 
     coordinated efforts to combat a variety of forms of gender-
     based violence, including child marriage, rape, female 
     genital cutting and mutilation, and domestic violence, among 
     other forms of gender-based violence in conflict and non-
     conflict settings.
       (d) Women, Peace, and Security.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'' should be made available to support a multi-
     year strategy to expand, and improve coordination of, United 
     States Government efforts to empower women as equal partners 
     in conflict prevention, peace building, transitional 
     processes, and reconstruction efforts in countries affected 
     by conflict or in political transition, and to ensure the 
     equitable provision of relief and recovery assistance to 
     women and girls.
       (e) Women and Girls at Risk From Extremism.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 shall be made available to 
     support women and girls who are at risk from extremism and 
     conflict, and for the activities described in section 
     7059(e)(1) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
     and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of 
     Public Law 115-141): Provided, That such funds are in 
     addition to amounts otherwise made available by this Act for 
     such purposes, and shall be made available following 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
                           sector allocations
       Sec. 7060. (a) Basic Education and Higher Education.--
       (1) Basic education.--
       (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act, 
     up to $515,000,000 may be made available for assistance for 
     basic education, and such funds may be made available 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law that restricts 
     assistance to foreign countries: Provided, That such funds 
     shall also be used for secondary education activities: 
     Provided further, That the USAID Administrator, following 
     consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, may 
     reprogram such funds between countries.
       (B) If the USAID Administrator determines that any 
     unobligated balances of funds specifically designated for 
     assistance for basic education in prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs are in excess of the 
     absorptive capacity of recipient countries, such funds may be 
     made available for other programs authorized under chapter 1 
     of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
     notwithstanding such funding designation: Provided, That the 
     authority of the previous proviso shall be subject to prior 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
       (C) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
     for assistance for basic education programs, not less than 
     $90,000,000 shall be made available for a contribution to 
     multilateral partnerships that support education.
       (2) Higher education.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
     III of this Act, not less than $235,000,000 shall be made 
     available for assistance for higher education: Provided, That 
     such funds may be made available notwithstanding any other 
     provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign 
     countries, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That of such amount, not less than $35,000,000 shall 
     be made available for human and institutional capacity 
     building partnerships between higher education institutions 
     in the United States and developing countries, of which not 
     less than $15,000,000 shall be for new partnerships which 
     should be competed and awarded not later than one year after 
     enactment of this Act: Provided further, That not later than 
     45 days after enactment of this Act, the USAID Administrator 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
     proposed uses of funds for such partnerships.
       (3) Mccain scholars program.--Funds appropriated by this 
     Act under the heading ``Educational and Cultural Exchange 
     Programs'' that are made available for the Benjamin Gilman 
     International Scholarships Program shall also be made 
     available for the McCain Scholars Program, pursuant to 
     section 303 of the International Academic Opportunity Act of 
     2000 (Public Law 106-309), to include the dependents of 
     active United States military personnel who are receiving any 
     form of Federal Financial Aid under title IV of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965.
       (b) Development Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'', not 
     less than $30,000,000 shall be made available for the 
     American Schools and Hospitals Abroad program, and not less 
     than $12,000,000 shall be made available for cooperative 
     development programs of USAID.
       (c) Environment and Energy Programs.--
       (1) In general.--Of the funds appropriated under title III 
     of this Act, not less than $942,563,000 shall be made 
     available for environment and renewable energy programs, of 
     which not less than $179,000,000 shall be for renewable 
     energy programs and not less than $177,000,000 shall be for 
     adaptation programs.
       (2) Authority and notification.--
       (A) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
     provisions of sections 103 through 106, and chapter 4 of part 
     II, of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used, 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law, except for the 
     provisions of this subsection, to support environment 
     programs.
       (B) Funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall 
     be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (3) Conservation programs and limitations.--
       (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act, 
     not less than $295,000,000 shall be made available for 
     biodiversity conservation programs.
       (B) Not less than $90,664,000 of the funds appropriated 
     under titles III and IV of this Act shall be made available 
     to combat the transnational threat of wildlife poaching and 
     trafficking.
       (C) None of the funds appropriated under title IV of this 
     Act may be made available for training or other assistance 
     for any military unit or personnel that the Secretary of 
     State determines has been credibly alleged to have 
     participated in wildlife poaching or trafficking, unless the 
     Secretary reports to the appropriate congressional committees 
     that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
     United States.
       (D) Funds appropriated by this Act for biodiversity 
     programs shall not be used to support the expansion of 
     industrial scale logging or any other industrial scale 
     extractive activity into areas that were primary/intact 
     tropical forests as of December 30, 2013, and the Secretary 
     of the Treasury shall instruct the United States executive 
     directors of each international financial institutions (IFI) 
     to vote against any financing of any such activity.
       (4) Large dams.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     instruct the United States executive director of each IFI 
     that it is the policy of the United States to vote in 
     relation to any loan, grant, strategy, or policy of such 
     institution to support the construction of any large dam 
     consistent with the criteria set forth in Senate Report 114-
     79, while also considering whether the project involves 
     important foreign policy objectives.
       (5) Sustainable landscapes.--Of the funds appropriated 
     under title III of this Act, not less than $135,000,000 shall 
     be made available for sustainable landscapes programs.
       (6) Strategies.--The Secretary of State shall submit the 
     strategies in the manner described under this heading in this 
     section in Senate report 115-282.
       (d) Food Security and Agricultural Development.--Of the 
     funds appropriated by title III of this Act, not less than 
     $1,000,600,000 shall be made available for food security and 
     agricultural development programs to carry out the purposes 
     of the Global Food Security Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-195), 
     of which not less than $315,960,000 shall be made available 
     for the Bureau for Food Security, USAID, including not less 
     than $55,000,000 for the Feed the Future Innovation Labs: 
     Provided, That funds may be made available for a contribution 
     as authorized by section 3202 of the Food, Conservation, and 
     Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-246), as amended by 
     section 3206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-
     79).
       (e) Micro- and Small Enterprises.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act, not less than $265,000,000 shall be 
     made available to support the development of, and access to 
     financing for, micro- and small enterprises that benefit the 
     poor, especially women.
       (f) Programs To Combat Trafficking in Persons.--Of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
     less than $65,000,000 shall be made available for activities 
     to combat trafficking in persons internationally, of which 
     not less than $40,000,000 shall be from funds made available 
     under the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'': Provided, That funds appropriated by this Act 
     that are made available for programs to end modern slavery 
     shall be in addition to funds made available by this 
     subsection to combat trafficking in persons.
       (g) Reconciliation Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
     ``Development Assistance'', not less than $30,000,000 shall 
     be made available to support people-to-people reconciliation 
     programs which bring together individuals of different 
     ethnic, religious, and political backgrounds from areas of 
     civil strife and war: Provided, That the USAID Administrator 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations, prior to 
     the initial obligation of funds, on the uses of such funds, 
     and such funds shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That to the maximum extent practicable, such funds 
     shall be matched by sources other than the United States 
     Government: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
     administered by the Office of Conflict Management and 
     Mitigation, USAID.
       (h) Water and Sanitation.--
       (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not less than 
     $435,000,000 shall be made available for water supply and 
     sanitation projects pursuant to section 136 of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961, of which not less than $195,000,000 
     shall be for programs in sub-Saharan Africa, and of which not 
     less than $15,000,000 shall be made available to support 
     initiatives by local communities in developing countries to 
     build and maintain safe latrines.
       (2) In furtherance of the mandate of the Water for the 
     World Act to provide sustainable access to clean water and 
     sanitation for the world's poorest people and in order to 
     promote transparency and accountability, not later than 45 
     days after enactment of this Act the USAID Administrator 
     shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
     specific weighting of criteria in the WASH Needs Index and an 
     explanation of how it is used to prioritize funding that is 
     proportionate to the needs of a country for water, 
     sanitation, and hygiene projects.
                overseas private investment corporation
       Sec. 7061. (a) Transfer of Funds.--Whenever the President 
     determines that it is in furtherance of the purposes of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, up to a total of $20,000,000 
     of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act may be 
     transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this 
     Act for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Program 
     Account, to be subject to the terms and conditions of that 
     account: Provided, That such funds shall not be available for 
     administrative expenses of the Overseas Private Investment 
     Corporation: Provided further, That designated funding levels 
     in this Act shall not be transferred pursuant to this 
     section: Provided further, That the exercise of such 
     authority shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (b) Authority.--Notwithstanding section 235(a)(2) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the authority of subsections 
     (a) through (c) of section 234 of such Act shall remain in 
     effect until September 30, 2019.
                           inspectors general
       Sec. 7062. (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--None of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act may be used to deny an 
     Inspector General funded under this Act timely access to any 
     records, documents, or other materials available to the 
     department or agency of the United States Government over 
     which such Inspector General has responsibilities under the 
     Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent 
     or impede the access of such Inspector General to such 
     records, documents, or other materials, under any provision 
     of law, except a provision of law that expressly refers to 
     such Inspector General and expressly limits the right of 
     access of such Inspector General.
       (b) Timely Access.--A department or agency of the United 
     States Government covered by this section shall provide its 
     Inspector General access to all records, documents, and other 
     materials in a timely manner.
       (c) Compliance.--Each Inspector General covered by this 
     section shall ensure compliance with statutory limitations on 
     disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
     department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
     responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
     U.S.C. App.).
       (d) Report.--Each Inspector General covered by this section 
     shall report to the Committees on Appropriations within 5 
     calendar days of any failure by any department or agency of 
     the United States Government to provide its Inspector General 
     access to all requested records, documents, and other 
     materials.
 individuals detained at united states naval station, guantanamo bay, 
                                  cuba
       Sec. 7063. Not later than 5 days after the conclusion of an 
     agreement with a country, including a state with a compact of 
     free association with the United States, to receive by 
     transfer or release individuals detained at United States 
     Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Secretary of State 
     shall notify the Committees on Appropriations in writing of 
     the terms of the agreement, including whether funds 
     appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations 
     for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
     programs will be made available for assistance for such 
     country pursuant to such agreement.
                           multi-year pledges
       Sec. 7064. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
     be used to make any pledge for future year funding for any 
     multilateral or bilateral program funded in titles III 
     through VI of this Act unless such pledge was--
       (1) previously justified, including the projected future 
     year costs, in a congressional budget justification;
       (2) included in an Act making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     or previously authorized by an Act of Congress;
       (3) notified in accordance with the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, including the 
     projected future year costs; or
       (4) the subject of prior consultation with the Committees 
     on Appropriations and such consultation was conducted at 
     least 7 days in advance of the pledge.
 torture and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment
       Sec. 7065. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds made 
     available by this Act may be used to support or justify the 
     use of torture and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading 
     treatment or punishment by any official or contract employee 
     of the United States Government.
       (b) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
     of this Act shall be made available, notwithstanding section 
     660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and following 
     consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, for 
     assistance to eliminate torture and other cruel, inhuman, or 
     degrading treatment or punishment by foreign police, military 
     or other security forces in countries receiving assistance 
     from funds appropriated by this Act.
                              extradition
       Sec. 7066. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated 
     in this Act may be used to provide assistance (other than 
     funds provided under the headings ``International Disaster 
     Assistance'', ``Complex Crises Fund'', ``International 
     Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Migration and 
     Refugee Assistance'', ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
     Migration Assistance Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining and Related Assistance'') for the central 
     government of a country which has notified the Department of 
     State of its refusal to extradite to the United States any 
     individual indicted for a criminal offense for which the 
     maximum penalty is life imprisonment without the possibility 
     of parole or for killing a law enforcement officer, as 
     specified in a United States extradition request.
       (b) Clarification.--Subsection (a) shall only apply to the 
     central government of a country with which the United States 
     maintains diplomatic relations and with which the United 
     States has an extradition treaty and the government of that 
     country is in violation of the terms and conditions of the 
     treaty.
       (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
     restriction in subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the 
     Secretary certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that 
     such waiver is important to the national interest of the 
     United States.
              countering russian influence and aggression
       Sec. 7067. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated 
     by this Act may be made available for assistance for the 
     central Government of the Russian Federation.
       (b) Annexation of Crimea.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for assistance for the central government of a 
     country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations has taken affirmative steps 
     intended to support or be supportive of the Russian 
     Federation annexation of Crimea or other territory in 
     Ukraine: Provided, That except as otherwise provided in 
     subsection (a), the Secretary may waive the restriction on 
     assistance required by this paragraph if the Secretary 
     determines and reports to such Committees that to do so is in 
     the national interest of the United States, and includes a 
     justification for such interest.
       (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for--
       (A) the implementation of any action or policy that 
     recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
     Crimea or other territory in Ukraine;
       (B) the facilitation, financing, or guarantee of United 
     States Government investments in Crimea or other territory in 
     Ukraine under the control of Russian-backed separatists, if 
     such activity includes the participation of Russian 
     Government officials, or other Russian owned or controlled 
     financial entities; or
       (C) assistance for Crimea or other territory in Ukraine 
     under the control of Russian-backed separatists, if such 
     assistance includes the participation of Russian Government 
     officials, or other Russian owned or controlled financial 
     entities.
       (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
     States executive directors of each international financial 
     institution to vote against any assistance by such 
     institution (including any loan, credit, or guarantee) for 
     any program that violates the sovereignty or territorial 
     integrity of Ukraine.
       (4) The requirements and limitations of this subsection 
     shall cease to be in effect if the Secretary of State 
     determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
     that the Government of Ukraine has reestablished sovereignty 
     over Crimea and other territory in Ukraine under the control 
     of Russian-backed separatists.
       (c) Occupation of the Georgian Territories of Abkhazia and 
     Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.--
       (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available for assistance for the central government of a 
     country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
     the Committees on Appropriations has recognized the 
     independence of, or has established diplomatic relations 
     with, the Russian occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia 
     and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia: Provided, That the 
     Secretary shall publish on the Department of State website a 
     list of any such central governments in a timely manner: 
     Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the 
     restriction on assistance required by this paragraph if the 
     Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
     Appropriations that to do so is in the national interest of 
     the United States, and includes a justification for such 
     interest.
       (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
     available to support the
     Russian occupation of the Georgian territories of Abkhazia 
     and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.
       (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
     States executive directors of each international financial 
     institution to vote against any assistance by such 
     institution (including any loan, credit, or guarantee) for 
     any program that violates the sovereignty and territorial 
     integrity of Georgia.
       (d) Countering Russian Influence Fund.--
       (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     headings ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', 
     ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
     ``International Military Education and Training'', and 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', not less than 
     $300,000,000 shall be made available to carry out the 
     purposes of the Countering Russian Influence Fund, as 
     authorized by section 254 of the Countering Russian Influence 
     in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-44; 22 
     U.S.C. 9543), and programs to enhance the capacity of law 
     enforcement and security forces in countries in Europe and 
     Eurasia and strengthen security cooperation between such 
     countries and the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization, as appropriate.
       (2) Of the funds appropriated in prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs that are made available for 
     the Countering Russian Influence Fund, not less than the 
     following amounts shall be made available--
       (A) $25,000,000 for assistance for Ukraine;
       (B) $15,000,000 for the assistance for the Baltic states;
       (C) $25,000,000 for assistance for Georgia; and
       (D) $15,000,000 for assistance for the countries of the 
     Balkan Peninsula:
      Provided, That such funds are in addition to amounts 
     otherwise made available by this Act for such countries.
       (3) Funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
     assistance for the Eastern Partnership countries shall be 
     made available to advance the implementation of Association 
     Agreements and trade agreements with the European Union, and 
     to reduce their vulnerability to external economic and 
     political pressure from the Russian Federation.
       (e) Democracy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
     shall be made available to support democracy programs in the 
     Russian Federation, including to promote Internet freedom, 
     and shall also be made available to support the democracy and 
     rule of law strategy required by section 7071(d) of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
                      international monetary fund
       Sec. 7068. (a) Extensions.--The terms and conditions of 
     sections 7086(b) (1) and (2) and 7090(a) of the Department of 
     State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
     shall apply to this Act.
       (b) Repayment.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
     instruct the United States Executive Director of the 
     International Monetary Fund (IMF) to seek to ensure that any 
     loan will be repaid to the IMF before other private 
     creditors.
  stabilization and development in regions impacted by extremism and 
                                conflict
       Sec. 7069. (a) Countering Foreign Fighters and Extremist 
     Organizations.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
     this Act shall be made available for programs and activities 
     to counter and defeat violent extremism and foreign fighters 
     abroad, consistent with the strategy required by section 
     7073(a)(1) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
     and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of 
     Public Law 115-31): Provided, That the Secretary of State 
     shall ensure such programs are coordinated with and 
     complement the efforts of other United States Government 
     agencies and international partners, and that information 
     gained through the conduct of such programs is shared in a 
     timely manner with relevant departments and agencies of the 
     United States Government, other international partners, and 
     the appropriate congressional committees, as appropriate.
       (b) Relief and Recovery Fund.--
       (1) Funds and transfer authority.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Economic 
     Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining 
     and Related Programs'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', and 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', not less than 
     $250,000,000 shall be made available for the Relief and 
     Recovery Fund for assistance for areas liberated or at risk 
     from, or under the control of, the Islamic State of Iraq and 
     Syria, other terrorist organizations, or violent extremist 
     organizations, including for stabilization assistance for 
     vulnerable ethnic and religious minority communities affected 
     by conflict: Provided, That such funds are in addition to 
     amounts otherwise made available for such purposes and to 
     amounts specifically designated in this Act for assistance 
     for countries: Provided further, That such funds appropriated 
     under such headings may be transferred to, and merged with, 
     funds appropriated under such headings: Provided further, 
     That such transfer authority is in addition to any other 
     transfer authority provided by this Act or any other Act, and 
     is subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
       (2) Transitional justice.--Of the funds appropriated by 
     this Act under the heading ``International Narcotics Control 
     and Law Enforcement'' that are made available for the Relief 
     and Recovery Fund, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made 
     available for programs to promote accountability in Iraq and 
     Syria for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes, 
     which shall be in addition to any other funds made available 
     by this Act for such purposes: Provided, That such programs 
     shall include components to develop local investigative and 
     judicial skills, and to collect and preserve evidence and 
     maintain the chain of custody of evidence, including for use 
     in prosecutions: Provided further, That such funds shall be 
     administered by the Special Coordinator for the Office of 
     Global Criminal Justice, Department of State: Provided 
     further, That funds made available by this paragraph shall 
     only be made available on an open and competitive basis.
       (3) Cost-matching basis.--Funds appropriated pursuant to 
     paragraph (1) shall be made available to the maximum extent 
     practicable on a cost-matching basis from sources other than 
     the United States Government.
       (4) Of the funds appropriated in prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs that are made available for 
     the Relief and Recovery Fund, not less than the following 
     amounts shall be made available--
       (A) $100,000,000 for assistance for Iraq;
       (B) $100,000,000 for assistance for Syria;
       (C) $50,000,000 for assistance for Jordan;
       (D) $50,000,000 for assistance for Libya;
       (E) $50,000,000 for assistance for Tunisia;
       (F) $50,000,000 for countries of the Lake Chad Basin 
     region;
       (G) $25,000,000 for assistance for Lebanon;
       (H) $25,000,000 for assistance for countries in West 
     Africa;
       (I) $25,000,000 for assistance for countries in East 
     Africa; and
       (J) $25,000,000 for assistance for the countries of the 
     Sahel region:
      Provided, That such funds are in addition to amounts 
     otherwise made available by this Act for such countries.
       (c) Prevention of Failed States Through Public-Private 
     Partnerships.--
       (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts 
     making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs that are made available for 
     the Relief and Recovery Fund, up to $20,000,000 shall be made 
     available to implement the program described in paragraph 
     (2), which shall be apportioned to USAID not later than 90 
     days after enactment of this Act: Provided, That such funds 
     shall be in addition to funds made available for bilateral 
     assistance for such countries, and shall remain available 
     until expended: Provided further, That in addition to funds 
     otherwise made available for such purposes, up to $1,500,000 
     of the funds made available by this paragraph may be used by 
     USAID for administrative expenses related to the design and 
     implementation of the program described in paragraph (2).
       (2) To prevent the failing of states and susceptibility to 
     radicalization that threatens the security of the United 
     States, the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator, in 
     coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal 
     agencies and United Nations entities, as appropriate, shall 
     develop and implement a public-private partnerships program 
     to accelerate a coherent approach to development in fragile 
     states and those states threatened or adversely impacted by 
     economic and political instability or violent extremism: 
     Provided, That the Secretary and Administrator shall, as 
     appropriate--
       (A) develop criteria for countries to be encompassed in the 
     program, including to--
       (i) ensure that any such program is fully integrated and 
     consistent with the development strategy for recipient 
     countries; and
       (ii) require the central government of countries to commit 
     to implementation of such program in a transparent and 
     accountable manner, including through the signing of compacts 
     or memoranda of understanding, as appropriate, as a 
     precondition for participation in such program;
       (B) prioritize local organizations in the participating 
     countries as implementers, and ensure any grants, cooperative 
     agreements, or contracts awarded to international 
     implementers contain provisions for the training and 
     mentoring of local organizations to sustain all activities by 
     the end of such award;
       (C) review existing bilateral and regional programs funded 
     by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
     Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
     that are implemented in such countries to ensure 
     complementarity with such program; and
       (D) coordinate such program with other development and 
     security programs conducted in recipient countries by other 
     United States Government agencies, including the Department 
     of Defense, and international donors, as appropriate.
       (3) Prior to the obligation of funds made available by 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator 
     shall jointly submit a report to the Committees on 
     Appropriations detailing the fragile states potentially 
     eligible for the public-private partnership program required 
     by this section; the requirements of the central governments 
     for participation in the program and program conditionality, 
     if any; and benchmarks to measures the effectiveness of such 
     program.
       (d) Counter Violent Extremism in Asia.--Of the funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for 
     programs to counter violent extremism in Asia, including 
     within the Buddhist community and between Buddhist and Muslim 
     communities: Provided, That such funds shall be administered 
     by the Mission Director of the Regional Development Mission 
     for Asia, USAID: Provided further, That such funds are in 
     addition to funds otherwise made available for such purposes.
       (e) Fragile States and Extremism.--Funds appropriated by 
     this Act shall be made available for the purposes of section 
     7080 of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
     Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of 
     Public Law 115-31), subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (f) Global Concessional Financing Facility.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
     Fund'' shall be made available for the Concessional Finance 
     Facility of the World Bank to provide financing to support 
     refugees and host communities: Provided, That such funds 
     shall be in addition to funds made available for bilateral 
     assistance in the report required by section 653(a) of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and may only be made 
     available subject to prior to consultation with the 
     Committees on Appropriations.
                            enterprise funds
       Sec. 7070. (a) Notification.--None of the funds made 
     available under titles III through VI of this Act may be made 
     available for Enterprise Funds unless the appropriate 
     congressional committees are notified at least 15 days in 
     advance.
       (b) Distribution of Assets Plan.--Prior to the distribution 
     of any assets resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or 
     winding up of an Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the 
     President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
     committees a plan for the distribution of the assets of the 
     Enterprise Fund.
       (c) Transition or Operating Plan.--Prior to a transition to 
     and operation of any private equity fund or other parallel 
     investment fund under an existing Enterprise Fund, the 
     President shall submit such transition or operating plan to 
     the appropriate congressional committees.
            international family planning and women's health
       Sec. 7071. (a) Assistance for Nongovernmental 
     Organizations.--
       (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, regulation, 
     or policy, a foreign nongovernmental organization--
       (A) shall not be ineligible for assistance appropriated or 
     otherwise made available by this Act solely on the basis of 
     health or medical services, including counseling and referral 
     services, provided by such organization with non-United 
     States Government funds if such services--
       (i) are permitted in the country in which they are being 
     provided; and
       (ii) would not violate United States law if provided in the 
     United States; and
       (B) shall not be subject to requirements relating to the 
     use of non-United States Government funds for advocacy and 
     lobbying activities other than those that apply to United 
     States nongovernmental organizations receiving assistance 
     appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act.
       (b) United Nations Population Fund.--
       (1) Contribution.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
     under the heading ``International Organizations and 
     Programs'', not less than $37,500,000 shall be made available 
     for the United Nations Population Fund (referred to in this 
     subsection as ``UNFPA'').
       (2) Availability of funds.--Funds appropriated for UNFPA 
     under this Act that are not made available for UNFPA because 
     of the operation of any provision of law--
       (A) shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     appropriated under the heading ``Global Health Programs''; 
     and
       (B) shall be made available for family planning, maternal, 
     and reproductive health activities, subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (3) Prohibition on use of funds in china.--None of the 
     funds made available under this Act may be used by UNFPA for 
     a country program in the People's Republic of China.
       (4) Conditions on availability of funds.--Funds made 
     available under this Act for UNFPA may not be made available 
     unless--
       (A) UNFPA maintains funds received under this Act in an 
     account separate from other UNFPA accounts and does not 
     commingle such funds with other funds; and
       (B) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
                        global internet freedom
       Sec. 7072. (a) Funding.--Of the funds available for 
     obligation during fiscal year 2019 under the headings 
     ``International Broadcasting Operations'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, 
     Eurasia and Central Asia'', not less than $60,500,000 shall 
     be made available for programs to promote Internet freedom 
     globally: Provided, That such programs shall be prioritized 
     for countries whose governments restrict freedom of 
     expression on the Internet, and that are important to the 
     national interest of the United States: Provided further, 
     That funds made available pursuant to this section shall be 
     matched, to the maximum extent practicable, by sources other 
     than the United States Government, including from the private 
     sector.
       (b) Requirements.--
       (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
     ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and 
     ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are 
     made available pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
       (A) coordinated with other democracy programs funded by 
     this Act under such headings, and shall be incorporated into 
     country assistance and democracy promotion strategies, as 
     appropriate;
       (B) for programs to implement the May 2011, International 
     Strategy for Cyberspace; the Department of State 
     International Cyberspace Policy Strategy required by section 
     402 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2015 (division N of Public 
     Law 114-113); and the comprehensive strategy to promote 
     Internet freedom and access to information in Iran, as 
     required by section 414 of the Iran Threat Reduction and 
     Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8754);
       (C) made available for programs that support the efforts of 
     civil society to counter the development of repressive 
     Internet-related laws and regulations, including countering 
     threats to Internet freedom at international organizations; 
     to combat violence against bloggers and other users; and to 
     enhance digital security training and capacity building for 
     democracy activists;
       (D) made available for research of key threats to Internet 
     freedom; the continued development of technologies that 
     provide or enhance access to the Internet, including 
     circumvention tools that bypass Internet blocking, filtering, 
     and other censorship techniques used by authoritarian 
     governments; and maintenance of the technological advantage 
     of the United States Government over such censorship 
     techniques: Provided, That the Secretary of State, in 
     consultation with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the 
     Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), shall coordinate any 
     such research and development programs with other relevant 
     United States Government departments and agencies in order to 
     share information, technologies, and best practices, and to 
     assess the effectiveness of such technologies; and
       (E) made available only after the Assistant Secretary for 
     Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, 
     concurs that such funds are allocated consistent with--
       (i) the strategies referenced in subparagraph (B) of this 
     paragraph;
       (ii) best practices regarding security for, and oversight 
     of, Internet freedom programs; and
       (iii) sufficient resources and support for the development 
     and maintenance of anti-censorship technology and tools.
       (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Broadcasting Operations'' that are made 
     available pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
       (A) made available only for tools and techniques to 
     securely develop and distribute BBG digital content; 
     facilitate audience access to such content on websites that 
     are censored; coordinate the distribution of BBG digital 
     content to targeted regional audiences; and to promote and 
     distribute such tools and techniques, including digital 
     security techniques;
       (B) coordinated with programs funded by this Act under the 
     heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'', and shall 
     be incorporated into country broadcasting strategies, as 
     appropriate;
       (C) coordinated by the BBG CEO to provide Internet 
     circumvention tools and techniques for audiences in countries 
     that are strategic priorities for the BBG and in a manner 
     consistent with the BBG Internet freedom strategy; and
       (D) made available for the research and development of new 
     tools or techniques authorized in paragraph (A) only after 
     the BBG CEO, in consultation with the Secretary of State and 
     other relevant United States Government departments and 
     agencies, evaluates the risks and benefits of such new tools 
     or techniques, and establishes safeguards to minimize the use 
     of such new tools or techniques for illicit purposes.
       (c) Coordination and Spend Plans.--After consultation among 
     the relevant agency heads to coordinate and de-conflict 
     planned activities, but not later than 90 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the BBG CEO 
     shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations spend plans 
     for funds made available by this Act for programs to promote 
     Internet freedom globally, which shall include a description 
     of safeguards established by relevant agencies to ensure that 
     such programs are not used for illicit purposes: Provided, 
     That the Department of State spend plan shall include funding 
     for all such programs for all relevant Department of State 
     and USAID offices and bureaus.
       (d) Security Audits.--Funds made available pursuant to this 
     section to promote Internet freedom globally may only be made 
     available to support technologies that undergo comprehensive 
     security audits conducted by the Bureau of Democracy, Human 
     Rights, and Labor, Department of State to ensure that such 
     technology is secure and has not been compromised in a manner 
     detrimental to the interest of the United States or to 
     individuals and organizations benefiting from programs 
     supported by such funds: Provided, That the security auditing 
     procedures used by such Bureau shall be reviewed and updated 
     periodically to reflect current industry security standards.
       (e) Surge.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
     heading ``Economic Support Fund'', up to $2,500,000 may be 
     made available to surge Internet freedom programs in closed 
     societies if the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
     the appropriate congressional committees that such use of 
     funds is in the national interest: Provided, That such funds 
     are in addition to amounts made available for such purposes: 
     Provided further, That such funds may be transferred to, and 
     merged with, funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
     ``International Broadcasting Operations'' following 
     consultation with, and the regular notification procedures 
     of, the Committees on Appropriations.
                  impact on jobs in the united states
       Sec. 7073. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
     available under titles III through VI of this Act may be 
     obligated or expended to provide--
       (1) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
     currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
     inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
     States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce 
     the number of employees of such business enterprise in the 
     United States because United States production is being 
     replaced by such enterprise outside the United States;
       (2) assistance for any program, project, or activity that 
     contributes to the violation of internationally recognized 
     workers' rights, as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade 
     Act of 1974, of workers in the recipient country, including 
     any designated zone or area in that country: Provided, That 
     the application of section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act 
     should be commensurate with the level of development of the 
     recipient country and sector, and shall not preclude 
     assistance for the informal sector in such country, micro and 
     small-scale enterprise, and smallholder agriculture;
       (3) any assistance to an entity outside the United States 
     if such assistance is for the purpose of directly relocating 
     or transferring jobs from the United States to other 
     countries and adversely impacts the labor force in the United 
     States; or
       (4) for the enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or 
     guidelines implemented pursuant to--
       (A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b) of the 
     Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
     Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117);
       (B) the modification proposed by the Overseas Private 
     Investment Corporation in November 2013 to the Corporation's 
     Environmental and Social Policy Statement relating to coal; 
     or
       (C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High Carbon Intensity 
     Projects approved by the Export-Import Bank of the United 
     States on December 12, 2013,
     when enforcement of such rule, regulation, policy, or 
     guidelines would prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, 
     any coal-fired or other power-generation project the purpose 
     of which is to: (i) provide affordable electricity in 
     International Development Association (IDA)-eligible 
     countries and IDA-blend countries; and (ii) increase exports 
     of goods and services from the United States or prevent the 
     loss of jobs from the United States.
                    special defense acquisition fund
       Sec. 7074. Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated 
     pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act 
     for the purposes of the Special Defense Acquisition Fund (the 
     Fund), to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
     2021: Provided, That the provision of defense articles and 
     services to foreign countries or international organizations 
     from the Fund shall be subject to the concurrence of the 
     Secretary of State.
                             reorganization
       Sec. 7075. (a) Limitations.--
       (1) Bureau of population, refugees, and migration, 
     department of state.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
     Act, prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
     State, foreign operations, and related programs, or any other 
     Act may be used to downsize, downgrade, consolidate, close, 
     move, or relocate the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and 
     Migration, Department of State, to another Federal agency.
       (2) Administration of funds.--Funds made available by this 
     Act--
       (A) under the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
     shall be administered by the Assistant Secretary for 
     Population, Refugees, and Migration, Department of State, and 
     this responsibility shall not be delegated; and
       (B) that are made available for the Office of Global 
     Women's Issues shall be administered by the United States 
     Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues, Department of 
     State, and this responsibility shall not be delegated.
       (b) Requirements.--
       (1) Cost analysis and implementation plan.--None of the 
     funds appropriated by this Act, prior Acts making 
     appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
     operations, and related programs, or any other Act may be 
     used to implement a reorganization plan for an agency, 
     organization, or entity funded by this Act unless the 
     appropriate congressional committees receive, not less than 
     60 days prior to the date of the implementation of such plan, 
     a--
       (A) comprehensive analysis of the short- and long-term 
     costs associated with such reorganization, including for 
     implementation, facilities and personnel, for the current 
     fiscal year and subsequent fiscal years; and
       (B) specific plan for implementing such reorganization, 
     including realistic timelines and benchmarks.
       (2) Prior consultation.--Funds appropriated by this Act, 
     prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
     foreign operations, and related programs, or any other Act 
     may not be used to implement a reorganization by the 
     Department of State, United States Agency for International 
     Development, any other Federal agency, or organization funded 
     by this Act without prior consultation by the head of such 
     department, agency, or organization with the appropriate 
     congressional committees.
       (3) Notification.--Funds made available by this Act that 
     are made available for the reorganization of the Department 
     of State, USAID, or any other Federal agency, or organization 
     funded by this Act shall be subject to the regular 
     notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
       (4) Operating plans.--Operating plans submitted pursuant to 
     section 7076(a) of this Act shall reflect, as applicable, the 
     costs associated with any reorganization planned during 
     fiscal year 2019.
       (c) Fiscal Year 2019 Personnel Endstrength Levels.--Funds 
     appropriated by this Act and made available for the 
     Department of State and USAID shall be made available to fund 
     the full cost of the personnel requirements necessary to 
     carry out the diplomatic, development, and national security 
     missions of the Department of State and USAID: Provided, That 
     as of September 30, 2019 the on-board, full-time career/
     permanent personnel levels of the Foreign Service and Civil 
     Service of--
       (1) the Department of State supported by such funds in 
     title I of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic Programs'' 
     shall be not less than 12,900 and 8,400, respectively; and
       (2) USAID supported by such funds in title II of this Act 
     under the heading ``Operating Expenses'' shall not be less 
     than 1,850 and 1,600, respectively.
       (d) Definition.--For the purpose of this section, the term 
     ``reorganization'' means any step taken to--
       (1) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or downsize 
     departments, agencies, or organizations, including bureaus 
     and offices within or between such departments, agencies, or 
     organizations, including the transfer to other agencies of 
     the authorities and responsibilities of such bureaus and 
     offices; and
       (2) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or downsize the United 
     States official presence overseas including at bilateral, 
     regional, and multilateral diplomatic facilities and other 
     platforms.
                            budget documents
       Sec. 7076. (a) Operating and Reorganization Plans.--Not 
     later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
     each department, agency, or organization funded in titles I, 
     II, and VI of this Act, and the Department of the Treasury 
     and Independent Agencies funded in title III of this Act, 
     including the Inter-American Foundation and the United States 
     African Development Foundation, shall submit to the 
     Committees on Appropriations an operating plan for funds 
     appropriated to such department, agency, or organization in 
     such titles of this Act, or funds otherwise available for 
     obligation in fiscal year 2019, that provides details of the 
     uses of such funds at the program, project, and activity 
     level: Provided, That such plans shall include, as 
     applicable, a comparison between the congressional budget 
     justification funding levels, the most recent congressional 
     directives or approved funding levels, and the funding levels 
     proposed by the department or agency; and a clear, concise, 
     and informative description/justification: Provided further, 
     That if such department, agency, or organization receives an 
     additional amount under the same heading in title VIII of 
     this Act, operating plans required by this subsection shall 
     include consolidated information on all such funds: Provided 
     further, That operating plans that include changes in levels 
     of funding for programs, projects, and activities specified 
     in the congressional budget justification, in this Act, or 
     amounts specifically designated in the respective tables 
     included in the explanatory statement described in section 3 
     (in the matter preceding division A of this consolidated 
     Act), as applicable, shall be subject to the notification and 
     reprogramming requirements of section 7015 of this Act.
       (b) Spend Plans.--
       (1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds, the Secretary 
     of State or Administrator of the United States Agency for 
     International Development, as appropriate, shall submit to 
     the Committees on Appropriations a spend plan for funds made 
     available by this Act, for--
       (A) assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, Pakistan, 
     and the West Bank and Gaza;
       (B) assistance made available pursuant to section 7067(d) 
     of this Act to counter Russian influence and aggression, 
     except that such plan shall be on a country-by-country basis;
       (C) assistance made available pursuant to section 7059 of 
     this Act;
       (D) Power Africa and the regional security initiatives 
     listed under this section in Senate Report 115-152: Provided, 
     That the spend plan for such initiatives shall include the 
     amount of assistance planned for each country by account, to 
     the maximum extent practicable; and
       (E) democracy programs, programs to support section 7069(a) 
     of this Act, and sectors enumerated in subsections (a), (c), 
     (d), (e), (f), and (h) of section 7060 of this Act.
       (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations a detailed spend plan for funds made available 
     by this Act under the heading ``Department of the Treasury, 
     International Affairs Technical Assistance'' in title III.
       (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), up to 10 percent of the 
     funds contained in a spend plan required by this subsection 
     may be obligated prior to the submission of such spend plan 
     if the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as 
     appropriate, determines that the obligation of such funds is 
     necessary to avoid significant programmatic disruption: 
     Provided, That not less than seven days prior to such 
     obligation, the Secretary or Administrator, as appropriate, 
     shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
     justification for such obligation and the proposed uses of 
     such funds.
       (c) Spending Report.--Not later than 45 days after 
     enactment of this Act, the USAID Administrator shall submit 
     to the Committees on Appropriations a detailed report on 
     spending of funds made available during fiscal year 2018 
     under the heading ``Development Credit Authority''.
       (d) Clarification.--The spend plans referenced in 
     subsection (b) shall not be considered as meeting the 
     notification requirements in this Act or under section 634A 
     of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
       (e) Congressional Budget Justification.--
       (1) The congressional budget justification for Department 
     of State operations and foreign operations shall be provided 
     to the Committees on Appropriations concurrent with the date 
     of submission of the President's budget for fiscal year 2019: 
     Provided, That the appendices for such justification shall be 
     provided to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 
     10 calendar days thereafter.
       (2) The Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator 
     shall include in the congressional budget justification a 
     detailed justification for multi-year availability for any 
     funds requested under the headings ``Diplomatic Programs'' 
     and ``Operating Expenses''.
                              rescissions
                    (including rescission of funds)
       Sec. 7077. (a) Of the unobligated balances available under 
     the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'', as identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund 
     Symbol 11 X 1022, $14,000,000 are rescinded.
       (b) Of the grant balances in the Foreign Military Sales 
     Trust Fund, identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbol 
     97-11 X 8242, which are not currently applied to an active 
     FMS case and which were appropriated prior to fiscal year 
     2009, $11,000,000 shall be deobligated, as appropriate, and 
     shall be permanently rescinded.
                               TITLE VIII
        OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM
                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE
                   Administration of Foreign Affairs
                          diplomatic programs
                     (including transfer of funds)
       For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic Programs'', 
     $2,975,971,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
     of which $2,376,122,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection 
     and shall remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
     Secretary of State may transfer up to $5,000,000 of the total 
     funds made available under this heading to any other 
     appropriation of any department or agency of the United 
     States, upon the concurrence of the head of such department 
     or agency, to support operations in, and assistance for, 
     Afghanistan and to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That any such 
     transfer shall be subject to the regular notification 
     procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
     further, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                      office of inspector general
       For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector 
     General'', $68,100,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020, of which $54,900,000 shall be for the Special 
     Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) for 
     reconstruction oversight: Provided, That printing and 
     reproduction costs of SIGAR shall not exceed amounts for such 
     costs during fiscal year 2018: Provided further, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.
                      International Organizations
              contributions to international organizations
       For an additional amount for ``Contributions to 
     International Organizations'', $96,240,000: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
        contributions for international peacekeeping activities
       For an additional amount for ``Contributions for 
     International Peacekeeping Activities'', $967,456,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
                           operating expenses
       For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', 
     $158,067,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                      office of inspector general
       For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector 
     General'', $2,500,000, to remain available until September 
     30, 2020: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
                   international disaster assistance
       For an additional amount for ``International Disaster 
     Assistance'', $584,278,000, to remain available until 
     expended: Provided, That such funds shall be apportioned to 
     the United States Agency for International Development not 
     later than 45 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
     further, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                         transition initiatives
       For an additional amount for ``Transition Initiatives'', 
     $62,043,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
     That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                         economic support fund
       For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
     $1,167,622,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                          Department of State
                    migration and refugee assistance
       For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee 
     Assistance'' to respond to refugee crises, including in 
     Africa, the Near East, South and Central Asia, and Europe and 
     Eurasia, $493,976,000, to remain available until expended, 
     except that such funds shall not be made available for the 
     resettlement costs of refugees in the United States: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
                          Department of State
          international narcotics control and law enforcement
       For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics 
     Control and Law Enforcement'', $417,951,000, to remain 
     available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
     Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
     Control Act of 1985.
    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs
       For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
     terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', $220,583,000, to 
     remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                        peacekeeping operations
       For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
     $325,213,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
     Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
     Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
     pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
     and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, 
     That funds available for obligation under this heading in 
     this Act may be used to pay assessed expenses of 
     international peacekeeping activities in Somalia, subject to 
     the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
     Appropriations.
                  Funds Appropriated to the President
                   foreign military financing program
       For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing 
     Program'', $460,000,000, to
     remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That 
     such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
     Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
                           GENERAL PROVISIONS
                       additional appropriations
       Sec. 8001. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     funds appropriated in this title are in addition to amounts 
     appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act for 
     fiscal year 2019.
                extension of authorities and conditions
       Sec. 8002. Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the 
     additional amounts appropriated by this title to 
     appropriations accounts in this Act shall be available under 
     the authorities and conditions applicable to such 
     appropriations accounts.
                           transfer of funds
       Sec. 8003. (a) Transfer of Funds Between Accounts.--
       (1) Funds appropriated by this title in this Act under the 
     headings ``Transition Initiatives'', ``Economic Support 
     Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
     Asia'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     appropriated by this title under such headings.
       (2) Funds appropriated by this title in this Act under the 
     headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
     Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining 
     and Related Programs'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', and 
     ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' may be transferred to, 
     and merged with, funds appropriated by this title under such 
     headings.
       (b) Global Security Contingency Fund.--Notwithstanding any 
     other provision of this section, up to $7,500,000 from funds 
     appropriated under the headings ``International Narcotics 
     Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
     and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' by this title in 
     this Act may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
     previously made available under the heading ``Global Security 
     Contingency Fund''.
       (c) Limitation.--The transfer authority provided in 
     subsection (a) may only be exercised to address 
     contingencies.
       (d) Notification.--The transfer authority provided by this 
     section shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the 
     regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
     Appropriations: Provided, That such transfer authority is in 
     addition to any transfer authority otherwise available under 
     any other provision of law, including section 610 of the 
     Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which may be exercised by the 
     Secretary of State for the purposes of this title.
                        designation requirement
       Sec. 8004. Each amount designated in this Act by the 
     Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
     Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
     Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
     shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
     designates all such amounts and transmits such designations 
     to the Congress.
       This division may be cited as the ``Department of State, 
     Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
     2019''.
                       DIVISION G--OTHER MATTERS
                                TITLE I
                         TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
       Sec. 101. Section 177 of division C of Public Law 114-223, 
     as amended by Public Law 114-254, is amended by inserting 
     ``and the 116th Congress'' after ``the 115th Congress'' in 
     each instance it appears.
       Sec. 102. (a) During fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding 
     fiscal year, amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
     for the Architect of the Capitol under the heading ``House 
     Office Buildings'' may be transferred to the House of 
     Representatives and merged with and made available under the 
     heading ``Allowances and Expenses'', subject to the approval 
     of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (b) The period of availability of any amounts transferred 
     to the House of Representatives under this section shall be 
     the same period of availability applicable to such amounts as 
     appropriated for the Architect of the Capitol.
       Sec. 103. Section 243 of title II of division C of Public 
     Law 115-244 is amended by inserting ``248'' after 
     ``section''.
       Sec. 104. (a) Employees furloughed as a result of any lapse 
     in appropriations beginning on or about December 22, 2018 and 
     ending on the date of enactment of this Act shall be 
     compensated at their standard rate of compensation, for the 
     period of such lapse in appropriations, as soon as 
     practicable after such lapse in appropriations ends.
       (b) For purposes of this section, ``employee'' means any of 
     the following whose salaries and expenses are provided in any 
     division of this consolidated Act:
       (1) A Federal employee.
       (2) An employee of the District of Columbia Courts.
       (3) An employee of the Public Defender Service for the 
     District of Columbia.
       (4) A District of Columbia Government employee.
       (c) All obligations incurred in anticipation of the 
     appropriations made and authority granted by any division of 
     this consolidated Act for the purposes of maintaining the 
     essential level of activity to protect life and property and 
     bringing about orderly termination of Government functions, 
     and for purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby 
     ratified and approved if otherwise in accord with the 
     provisions of any division of this consolidated Act.
       Sec. 105. (a) If a State (or another Federal grantee) used 
     State funds (or the grantee's non-Federal funds) to continue 
     carrying out a Federal program or furloughed State employees 
     (or the grantee's employees) whose compensation is advanced 
     or reimbursed in whole or in part by the Federal Government--
       (1) such furloughed employees shall be compensated at their 
     standard rate of compensation for such period;
       (2) the State (or such other grantee) shall be reimbursed 
     for expenses that would have been paid by the Federal 
     Government during such period had appropriations been 
     available, including the cost of compensating such furloughed 
     employees, together with interest thereon calculated under 
     section 6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
       (3) the State (or such other grantee) may use funds 
     available to the State (or the grantee) under such Federal 
     program to reimburse such State (or the grantee), together 
     with interest thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of 
     title 31, United States Code.
       (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``State'' and 
     the term ``grantee,'' including United States territories and 
     possessions, shall have the meaning given such terms under 
     the applicable Federal program under subsection (a). In 
     addition, ``to continue carrying out a Federal program'' 
     means the continued performance by a State or other Federal 
     grantee, during the period of a lapse in appropriations, of a 
     Federal program that the State or such other grantee had been 
     carrying out prior to the period of the lapse in 
     appropriations.
       (c) The authority under this section applies with respect 
     to any period in fiscal year 2019 (not limited to periods 
     beginning or ending after the date of the enactment of this 
     Act) during which there occurs a lapse in appropriations with 
     respect to any department or agency of the Federal Government 
     receiving funding in any division of this consolidated Act 
     which, but for such lapse in appropriations, would have paid, 
     or made reimbursement relating to, any of the expenses 
     referred to in this section with respect to the program 
     involved. Payments and reimbursements under this authority 
     shall be made only to the extent and in amounts provided in 
     advance in appropriations Acts.
       Sec. 106. (a) Section 3(20)(B) of the Carl D. Perkins 
     Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 
     2302(20)(B)), as amended by section 7 of the Strengthening 
     Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act 
     (Public Law 115-224), is amended by inserting ``, except 
     that, for the purpose of section 132, the term `recognized 
     postsecondary credential' as used in this subparagraph shall 
     not include a baccalaureate degree'' after ``associate 
     degree''.
       (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect 
     on July 1, 2019, as if included in the Strengthening Career 
     and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (Public Law 
     115-224).
                                TITLE II
                       EXTENSIONS OF AUTHORITIES
       Sec. 201. Sections 1309(a) and 1319 of the National Flood 
     Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a) and 4026) shall be 
     applied by substituting ``September 30, 2019'' for ``December 
     7, 2018''.
       Sec. 202. The authority provided under title XXI of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 621 et seq.), as 
     amended by section 2(a) of the Protecting and Securing 
     Chemical Facilities from Terrorist Attacks Act of 2014 
     (Public Law 113-254), shall continue in effect through 
     September 30, 2019.
       Sec. 203. (a) The following sections of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act shall continue in 
     effect through March 1, 2019--
       (1) subparagraphs (C) through (E) of section 4(i)(1) (7 
     U.S.C. 136a-1(i)(1)(C)-(E));
       (2) section 4(k)(3) (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(k)(3));
       (3) section 4(k)(4) (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(k)(4)); and
       (4) section 33(c)(3)(B) (7 U.S.C. 136w-8(c)(3)(B)).
       (b)(1) Section 4(i)(1)(I) of the Federal Insecticide, 
     Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(i)(1)(I)) 
     shall be applied by substituting ``March 1, 2019'' for 
     ``September 30, 2017''.
       (2) Notwithstanding section 33(m)(2) of the Federal 
     Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w-
     8(m)(2)), section 33(m)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 136w-
     8(m)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``March 1, 2019'' 
     for ``September 30, 2017''.
       (c) Section 408(m)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 346a(m)(3)) shall be applied by 
     substituting ``March 1, 2019'' for ``September 30, 2017''.
       Sec. 204. Section 319L(e)(1)(A) of the Public Health 
     Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-7e(e)(1)(A)) shall continue in 
     effect through September 30, 2019.
       Sec. 205. Section 405(a) of the Pandemic and All-Hazards 
     Preparedness Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6a note) shall continue in 
     effect through September 30, 2019.
                        tanf program extensions
       Sec. 206. (a) Family Assistance Grants.--Section 403(a)(1) 
     of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(1)) is amended 
     in each of
     subparagraphs (A) and (C) by striking ``2017 and 2018'' and 
     inserting ``2019 and 2020''.
       (b) Healthy Marriage Promotion and Responsible Fatherhood 
     Grants.--Section 403(a)(2)(D) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
     603(a)(2)(D)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``2017 and 2018'' and inserting ``2019 and 
     2020''; and
       (2) by striking ``for fiscal year 2017 or 2018''.
       (c) Contingency Fund.--Section 403(b)(2) of such Act (42 
     U.S.C. 603(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' 
     and inserting ``each of fiscal years 2019 and 2020''.
       (d) Tribal Family Assistance Grants.--Paragraphs (1)(A) and 
     (2)(A) of section 412(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 612(a)) are 
     each amended by striking ``2017 and 2018'' and inserting 
     ``2019 and 2020''.
       (e) Child Care.--Section 418(a)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
     618(a)(3)) is amended by striking ``2017 and 2018'' and 
     inserting ``2019 and 2020''.
       (f) Grants to the Territories.--Section 1108(b)(2) of such 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``2017 and 
     2018'' and inserting ``2019 and 2020''.
                  measuring and understanding outcomes
       Sec. 207. (a) In General.--Section 411(a) of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 611(a)) is amended by redesignating 
     paragraph (7) as paragraph (8) and inserting after paragraph 
     (6) the following:
       ``(7) Report on engagement, employment and outcomes.--
       ``(A) Reporting agreement.--Each State and the Secretary 
     shall enter into an agreement specifying the manner by which 
     the information and data described in this paragraph shall be 
     collected and reported to the Secretary beginning in fiscal 
     year 2020.
       ``(i) Outcomes for exiting recipients.--Information and 
     data regarding families who formerly received assistance and 
     included a work-eligible individual (disaggregated by type of 
     family, reason for exit, and participation in work activities 
     during the preceding fiscal year) under the State program 
     funded under this part or under any State program funded with 
     qualified State expenditures (as defined in section 
     409(a)(7)(B)(i)), with respect to the following:
       ``(I) The percentage with at least 1 formerly work-eligible 
     individual employed during the 2nd quarter after exiting from 
     the program.
       ``(II) The percentage with at least 1 formerly work-
     eligible individual employed during the 4th quarter after 
     exiting from the program.
       ``(III) The median earnings when at least 1 formerly work-
     eligible individual is employed during the 2d quarter after 
     exiting from the program.
       ``(IV) The percentage with at least 1 formerly work-
     eligible individual employed during any of the first 4 
     quarters after exiting from the program.
       ``(V) The distribution of income and earnings, including 
     relative to poverty and deep poverty, for each of the first 4 
     quarters ending after the quarter of exit from assistance.
       ``(VI) The percentage who, at the time of exit from the 
     program, were subject to the following:
       ``(aa) A penalty under section 407(e).
       ``(bb) A sanction or penalty described in section 404 or 
     408.
       ``(cc) A penalty or sanction not described in item (aa) or 
     (bb).
       ``(ii) Engagement and employment of current recipients.--
       ``(I) Work-eligible individuals.--In the case of current 
     work-eligible individuals under the State program funded 
     under this part or under any State program funded with 
     qualified State expenditures (as defined in section 
     409(a)(7)(B)(i)), the following information relative to 
     current quarter being reported:
       ``(aa) Earnings in each of the 4 quarters immediately 
     preceding the quarter.
       ``(bb) Standard measures of employment, earnings, receipt 
     of assistance, and participation in work activities (as 
     defined in section 407(d)) in each of the first 4 quarters 
     following the quarter.
       ``(II) All recipients.-- The percentage of recipients of 
     assistance under the State program funded under this part who 
     have not attained 24 years of age and who obtain a high 
     school degree or its recognized equivalent while receiving 
     the assistance.
       ``(B) Statistical adjustment model for employment 
     outcomes.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary 
     of Labor and relevant experts, shall develop recommendations 
     by March 1, 2020, on how to establish and disseminate an 
     objective statistical model that will allow the Secretary to 
     make adjustments to the data reported pursuant to subclauses 
     (I) through (IV) of subparagraph (A)(i) of this paragraph, 
     based on economic conditions and the characteristics of 
     participants. To the extent practicable, the recommendations 
     shall be compatible with the statistical adjustment model 
     developed under section 116(b)(3)(A)(viii) of the Workforce 
     Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
     3141(b)(3)(A)(viii)) and, with respect to a State, the State 
     adjusted levels of performance established for the State 
     under that section.''.
  technical corrections to data exchange standards to improve program 
                              coordination
       Sec. 208. (a) In General.--Section 411(d) of the Social 
     Security Act (42 U.S.C. 611(d)) is amended to read as 
     follows:
       ``(d) Data Exchange Standards for Improved 
     Interoperability.--
       ``(1) Designation.--The Secretary shall, in consultation 
     with an interagency work group established by the Office of 
     Management and Budget and considering State government 
     perspectives, by rule, designate data exchange standards to 
     govern, under this part--
       ``(A) necessary categories of information that State 
     agencies operating programs under State plans approved under 
     this part are required under applicable Federal law to 
     electronically exchange with another State agency; and
       ``(B) Federal reporting and data exchange required under 
     applicable Federal law.
       ``(2) Requirements.--The data exchange standards required 
     by paragraph (1) shall, to the extent practicable--
       ``(A) incorporate a widely accepted, non-proprietary, 
     searchable, computer-readable format, such as the eXtensible 
     Markup Language;
       ``(B) contain interoperable standards developed and 
     maintained by intergovernmental partnerships, such as the 
     National Information Exchange Model;
       ``(C) incorporate interoperable standards developed and 
     maintained by Federal entities with authority over 
     contracting and financial assistance;
       ``(D) be consistent with and implement applicable 
     accounting principles;
       ``(E) be implemented in a manner that is cost-effective and 
     improves program efficiency and effectiveness; and
       ``(F) be capable of being continually upgraded as 
     necessary.
       ``(3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
     shall be construed to require a change to existing data 
     exchange standards found to be effective and efficient.''.
       (b) Effective Date.--Not later than the date that is 24 
     months after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue a proposed 
     rule that--
       (1) identifies federally required data exchanges, include 
     specification and timing of exchanges to be standardized, and 
     address the factors used in determining whether and when to 
     standardize data exchanges; and
       (2) specifies State implementation options and describes 
     future milestones.
              unemployment insurance technical corrections
       Sec. 209. Section 306(a) of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 506(a)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``individuals'' and inserting ``claimants 
     of regular compensation, including claimants''; and
       (2) by inserting a comma after ``section 303(j)''.
                               TITLE III
                           MEDICAID EXTENDERS
    extension of money follows the person rebalancing demonstration
       Sec. 301. (a) General Funding.--Section 6071(h) of the 
     Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' after the 
     semicolon;
       (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(F) subject to paragraph (3), $112,000,000 for fiscal 
     year 2019.'';
       (2) in paragraph (2)--
       (A) by striking ``Amounts made'' and inserting ``Subject to 
     paragraph (3), amounts made''; and
       (B) by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2021''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(3) Special rule for fy 2019.--Funds appropriated under 
     paragraph (1)(F) shall be made available for grants to States 
     only if such States have an approved MFP demonstration 
     project under this section as of December 31, 2018.''.
       (b) Funding for Quality Assurance and Improvement; 
     Technical Assistance; Oversight.--Section 6071(f) of the 
     Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is 
     amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(2) Funding.--From the amounts appropriated under 
     subsection (h)(1)(F) for fiscal year 2019, $500,000 shall be 
     available to the Secretary for such fiscal year to carry out 
     this subsection.''.
       (c) Technical Amendment.--Section 6071(b) of the Deficit 
     Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(10) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
     of Health and Human Services.''.
 extension of protection for medicaid recipients of home and community-
             based services against spousal impoverishment
       Sec. 302. (a) In General.--Section 2404 of Public Law 111-
     148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r-5 note) is amended by striking ``the 5-
     year period that begins on January 1, 2014,'' and inserting 
     ``the period beginning on January 1, 2014, and ending on 
     March 31, 2019,''.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--
       (1) Protecting state spousal income and asset disregard 
     flexibility under waivers and plan amendments.--Nothing in 
     section 2404 of Public Law 111-148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r-5 note) 
     or section 1924 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-
     5) shall be construed as prohibiting a State from 
     disregarding an individual's spousal income and assets under 
     a State waiver or plan amendment described in paragraph (2) 
     for purposes of making determinations of eligibility for home 
     and
     community-based services or home and community-based 
     attendant services and supports under such waiver or plan 
     amendment.
       (2) State waiver or plan amendment described.--A State 
     waiver or plan amendment described in this paragraph is any 
     of the following:
       (A) A waiver or plan amendment to provide medical 
     assistance for home and community-based services under a 
     waiver or plan amendment under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of 
     section 1915 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n) or 
     under section 1115 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1315).
       (B) A plan amendment to provide medical assistance for home 
     and community-based services for individuals by reason of 
     being determined eligible under section 1902(a)(10)(C) of 
     such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(C)) or by reason of section 
     1902(f) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(f)) or otherwise on the 
     basis of a reduction of income based on costs incurred for 
     medical or other remedial care under which the State 
     disregarded the income and assets of the individual's spouse 
     in determining the initial and ongoing financial eligibility 
     of an individual for such services in place of the spousal 
     impoverishment provisions applied under section 1924 of such 
     Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-5).
       (C) A plan amendment to provide medical assistance for home 
     and community-based attendant services and supports under 
     section 1915(k) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(k)).
  reduction in fmap after 2020 for states without asset verification 
                                program
       Sec. 303. Section 1940 of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1396w) is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new subsection:
       ``(k) Reduction in FMAP After 2020 for Non-Compliant 
     States.--
       ``(1) In general.--With respect to a calendar quarter 
     beginning on or after January 1, 2021, the Federal medical 
     assistance percentage otherwise determined under section 
     1905(b) for a non-compliant State shall be reduced--
       ``(A) for calendar quarters in 2021 and 2022, by 0.12 
     percentage points;
       ``(B) for calendar quarters in 2023, by 0.25 percentage 
     points;
       ``(C) for calendar quarters in 2024, by 0.35 percentage 
     points; and
       ``(D) for calendar quarters in 2025 and each year 
     thereafter, by 0.5 percentage points.
       ``(2) Non-compliant state defined.--For purposes of this 
     subsection, the term `non-compliant State' means a State--
       ``(A) that is one of the 50 States or the District of 
     Columbia;
       ``(B) with respect to which the Secretary has not approved 
     a State plan amendment submitted under subsection (a)(2); and
       ``(C) that is not operating, on an ongoing basis, an asset 
     verification program in accordance with this section.''.
                       medicaid improvement fund
       Sec. 304. Section 1941(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 
     U.S.C. 1396w-1(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``$31,000,000'' 
     and inserting ``$6,000,000''.
                           budgetary effects
       Sec. 305. (a) Statutory PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary 
     effects of this division shall not be entered on either PAYGO 
     scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the 
     Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)).
       (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this 
     division shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard 
     maintained for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 
     (115th Congress).
       (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding 
     Rule 3 of the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the 
     joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference 
     accompanying Conference Report 105-217 and section 250(c)(8) 
     of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985, the budgetary effects of this division shall not be 
     estimated--
       (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act; and
       (2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
     Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
     appropriation Act.
                                TITLE IV
                           BUDGETARY EFFECTS
       Sec. 401. Effective on the date of enactment of this Act, 
     the balances on the PAYGO scorecards established pursuant to 
     paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-
     As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)) shall be zero.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the 
gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. Lowey) and the gentlewoman from Texas 
(Ms. Granger) each will control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New York.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  As this new Congress begins our work for the American people, I thank 
my colleagues for the honor of electing me chairwoman of the 
Appropriations Committee.
  I would also like to congratulate my colleague and friend, Kay 
Granger, on becoming ranking member. I look forward to working with her 
and all of the Members of our committee and this House in the 116th 
Congress.
  For the first time in our Nation's history, however, we convene this 
new Congress during a Federal Government shutdown. Now in its 13th day, 
the Trump shutdown has disrupted life for more than 800,000 Federal 
employees and their families, including nearly 400,000 people serving 
our country without pay.
  The shutdown has undermined public safety, halted consumer protection 
programs, and made it harder for the government to serve farmers, home 
buyers, and small business owners.
  The devastating impact on international security and assistance 
initiatives includes halting counterdrug, anticrime, and border 
security efforts, preventing the obligation of funding for 
antiterrorism assistance, cutting off foreign military financing, and 
stopping all new activities related to global health, such as 
antimalaria and HIV-AIDS treatments, as well as maternal mortality 
care.
  As Representatives, funding the Federal Government is one of our most 
important duties. When Congress allows a President to dictate 
ridiculous demands and lets petty partisanship prevent the timely 
passage of appropriation bills, we abdicate that responsibility.
  Our new Democratic majority was elected to end the chaos and govern 
responsibly. This legislative package to end the Trump shutdown and 
fully reopen government consists of two parts, separating the 
disagreement between President Trump and Congress over border security 
from funding the rest of the Federal Government.
  The first part, the one we are considering now, provides full-year 
funding for six of the seven fiscal year 2019 appropriation bills that 
have not yet been completed.
  The text is virtually identical to bipartisan legislation that has 
already passed the Senate Appropriations Committee, nearly unanimously, 
and in four cases, passed the full Senate on a 92-6 vote.
  These bills are not perfect, but they make key investments in 
bipartisan priorities, do not include any poison-pill riders, and 
increase funding for important programs by $53 billion more than 
President Trump's budget request.
  The second part of our legislative package, which will be presented 
shortly by our distinguished Homeland Security Appropriations 
Subcommittee chairwoman, Lucille Roybal-Allard, includes a continuing 
resolution, funding the Department of Homeland Security at current 
levels through February 8.
  It would allow the Department to reopen without providing any new 
funding for President Trump's wasteful border wall.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to pass both bills, and I urge 
the Senate to act responsibly and take up these bills without delay. It 
is up to Senate Republicans whether to vote for their own bills and 
reopen the government, or block them and continue the Trump shutdown.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
        explanatory statement to accompany h.r. 21, consolidated 
                        appropriations act, 2019
        DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT AND 
                            RELATED AGENCIES
                                        LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Fiscal year 2018   Budget request
                                                                 enacted       (Discretionary)    In this bill
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land and Water Conservation Fund..........................           425,000           -12,867           425,038
 
State and Local Programs..................................           224,731  ................           235,296
 
    National Park Service State Assistance................           124,006  ................           124,006
    Coop. Endangered Species Conservation Fund............            19,638  ................            30,800
    American Battlefield Protection Act...................            10,000  ................            15,000
    Highlands Conservation Act............................            10,000  ................  ................
 
Forest Legacy Program.....................................            67,025  ................            65,490
 
Federal Land Acquisition..................................           200,269            33,133           189,742
    Bureau of Land Management.............................            24,916             3,392            26,016
    Fish and Wildlife Service.............................            53,839            11,953            45,189
    National Park Service.................................            46,935             8,788            35,438
    Forest Service........................................            64,337  ................            74,099
    Department of the Interior Valuation Services.........            10,242             9,000             9,000
    Rescissions...........................................            -5,968           -46,000           -16,028
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Bill
State            Project             Budget  estimate   (Discretionary)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
   IDLittle Salmon River          .................                800
      Recreation Area
   MTEverson Bench                .................                400
   COGold Belt Access             .................              2,400
   CAHeadwaters National Forest   .................              1,500
      Reserve
   WYFortification Creek          .................                100
      Wilderness Study Area
   ALRebel Road                   .................                400
   UTRed Cliffs National          .................              4,000
      Conservation Area
   IDRidge to Rivers              .................                300
   NMSabinoso Area of Critical    .................                600
      Environmental Concern
   CASand to Snow National        .................              1,000
      Monument
   NMFort Stanton Snowy River     .................              1,900
      Cave National Conservation
      Area
 
     Acquisition Management                   1,916              2,000
     Recreation Access            .................              9,000
     Inholdings, Emergencies,                 1,396              1,616
      and Hardships
 
     Rescission of funds                    -10,000  .................
                                 ---------------------------------------
           Total, Land                       -6,608             26,016
            Acquisition
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Budget            Bill
    State              Project              estimate     (Discretionary)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         -MT Montana National          ..............            4,000
              Wildlife Refuges and
              Conservation Area
          FL Everglades Headwaters     ..............            2,000
              NWR and CA
          SD Dakota Grassland          ..............            4,000
              Conservation Area
          AR Cache River NWR           ..............            3,100
          MD Blackwater NWR            ..............            1,000
       IA/MN Northern Tallgrass        ..............              500
              Prairie NWR
          FL St Marks NWR              ..............            2,000
    ID/UT/WY Bear River Watershed CA   ..............            1,500
          TX Laguana Atascosa NWR      ..............            1,000
          CO San Luis Valley CA        ..............            2,000
 CT/MA/NH/VT Silvio O. Conte National  ..............            1,000
              Fish and Wildlife
              Refuge
 
             Acquisition Management             9,615           12,773
             Recreational Access       ..............            3,000
             Inholdings, Emergencies,           1,641            5,351
              Hardships
             Exchanges                            697            1,500
             Land Protection Planning  ..............              465
             Highlands Conservation    ..............  ...............
             Rescission                        -5,000  ...............
            ------------------------------------------------------------
                   Total, Land                  6,953           45,189
                    Acquisition-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Budget            Bill
   State              Project               estimate     (Discretionary)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        LA Jean Lafitte National       ..............            1,456
            Historical Park and
            Preserve
        AL Little River Canyon         ..............              985
            National Preserve
        WY Grand Teton National Park   ..............            5,250
        VA Cedar Creek and Belle       ..............            1,556
            Grove National Historical
            Park
        TN Obed Wild and Scenic River  ..............              962
 NC/SC/TN/ Overmountain Victory        ..............              185
        VA  National Historic Trail
        AR Buffalo National River      ..............              246
        MI Sleeping Bear Dunes         ..............            2,308
            National Lakeshore
     KY/TN Big South Fork National     ..............              398
            River and Recreation Area
        MD Antietam National           ..............              557
            Battlefield
           Acquisition Management               8,788            9,679
           Recreational Access         ..............            3,000
           Emergencies, Hardships,     ..............            3,928
            Relocations and
            Deficiencies
           Inholdings, Exchanges,      ..............            4,928
            Donations
           American Battlefield        ..............           15,000
            Protection Grant Program
                                      ----------------------------------
                 Total, Land                    8,788           50,438
                  Acquisition
                                      ==================================
           State Assistance Grants,    ..............          100,000
            Discretionary
           State Assistance Grants,    ..............           20,000
            Competitive
           Administrative Expenses     ..............            4,006
                                      ----------------------------------
                 Total, State          ..............          124,006
                  Assistance
                                      ==================================
           Rescission                         -10,000  ...............
                                      ----------------------------------
                 Total, Land                   -1,212          174,444
                  Acquisition and
                  State Assistance
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              FOREST LEGACY
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Bill
State            Project             Budget  estimate   (Discretionary)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
   MTKootenai Forestlands         .................              6,000
      Conservation Project
   VTHunger Mountain Headwaters   .................                155
   TNSkinner Mountain Forest      .................              5,665
   HIKamehamenui Forest Project   .................              1,000
   NCBalsam Range                 .................              1,800
   ORHood River Forest and Fish   .................              2,220
      Conservation Project
   FLKeystone Longleaf Preserve   .................              2,300
   ARHot Springs Forest           .................              1,370
   CADiamond D Forest             .................              4,000
   MSPascagoula River             .................              3,500
      Conservation Lands
   IAHeritage Valley              .................              3,000
   IDBoundary Connections 2       .................              3,800
   OHLittle Smokies 2             .................              2,500
   AZSan Pedro Riparian Forest    .................              1,800
      Protection Project
   NMRio Brazos Watershed/Brazos  .................              2,055
      Cliff
   MNCamp Ripley Sentinel         .................                900
      Landscape
   LAClear Creek WMA FY19 Forest  .................              3,500
      Legacy Project
   PRProtecting Resilient         .................              1,275
      Landscape in PR Central
      Range
   SCLiberty Hill Extension       .................              1,330
   MDElk Neck Peninsula           .................                555
   CTAshford Woodlands Project    .................              1,450
   RIScituate Reservoir           .................              2,905
      Watershed
   VAJames River Headwaters       .................              1,000
   VTWorcester Woods II           .................              3,530
   MIElk Forest at Black River    .................              1,500
 
     Administration               .................              6,400
     Rescission of funds from                -4,000  .................
      failed or partially failed
      projects
                                 ---------------------------------------
               Total, Forest                 -4,000             65,490
                Legacy Program
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Bill
State            Project             Budget  estimate   (Discretionary)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
   MT Beavertail to Bearmouth     .................              3,800
   UT Wasatch Watersheds          .................                535
   CA Sierra Nevade Checkerboard  .................              2,500
   OR Wasson Creek                .................              3,422
   MN Minnesota School Trust      .................              5,000
       Lands
   OH Appalachian Foothills       .................              1,800
   CA Trinity Divid-Pacific       .................              3,200
       Crest National Scenic
       Trail
   AK Cube Cove                   .................              5,200
   WA Washington Cascades/Yakima  .................              4,000
       River Watershed
   MT Swan Range                  .................              4,000
   VT Rolsten Rest                .................              2,700
   SD Spring Creek                .................              1,410
   CO Union Park                  .................              2,000
   AZ Verde River String of       .................              3,430
       Pearls
   NC North Carolina Threatened   .................                750
       Treasures
   TN Tennessee Mountain Trails   .................                850
       and Waters
   MT Clearwater Backfoot         .................              5,000
       Project
   WI Swimming Bear               .................              1,000
   VA George Washington and       .................              1,000
       Jefferson National Forest
   CA Sanhedrin                   .................              3,900
   SC South Carolina Promise of   .................              2,000
       the Piedmont
   AL Alabama's Wild Wonders      .................              2,000
 
      Acquisition Management      .................              7,352
      Recreational Access         .................              5,000
      Critical Inholdings/        .................              2,000
       Wilderness
      Cash Equalization           .................                250
      Rescission                            -17,000            -16,028
                                 ---------------------------------------
            Total, Land           .................             58,071
             Acquisition
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE CONSTRUCTION
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Bill
State            Project             Budget  estimate   (Discretionary)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  IL- Crab Orchard NWR-                   1,000,000          1,000,000
  AK- Alaska Maritime NWR-                2,675,000          2,675,000
 NM - Valle de Oro NWR -                  1,000,000          1,000,000
  MQ- Midway Atoll NWR-                         800                800
  AK- Yukon Delta NWR-                          400                400
  MI- Pendillis Creek NFH-                      700                700
  TX- San Marcos Aquatic                  1,608,000          1,608,000
       Resources Center-
  AZ- Alchesay NFH-                         150,000            150,000
   MI Sullivan Creek NFH                     60,000             60,000
   *- HQ Branch of Dam Safety-                  250                250
   *- HQ Branch of Dam Safety-                  200                200
   *- HQ Information Resources &                250                250
       Technology Management-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF NEW BUDGET (OBLIGATIONAL) AUTHORITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018 AND BUDGET ESTIMATES AND AMOUNTS RECOMMENDED IN THE BILL FOR FISCAL
                                                                        YEAR 2019
                                                                [In thousands of dollars]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                       This bill compared with (+ or -)
                                                                      2018                                           -----------------------------------
                             Item                                 appropriation    Budget estimate      This bill           2018
                                                                                                                        appropriation    Budget estimate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
 
                   BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
 
               Management of Lands and Resources
 
Land Resources:
    Soil, water and air management............................           43,609   ................  ................          -43,609   ................
    Rangeland management......................................           81,000            82,116           103,921           +22,921           +21,805
    Forestry management.......................................           10,135             9,527            10,135   ................             +608
    Riparian management.......................................           21,321   ................  ................          -21,321   ................
 
    Cultural resources management.............................           17,131            15,383            17,131   ................           +1,748
    Wild horse and burro management...........................           75,000            66,719            80,555            +5,555           +13,836
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          248,196           173,745           211,742           -36,454           +37,997
 
Wildlife and Fisheries:
    Wildlife management.......................................          103,281   ................  ................         -103,281   ................
    Fisheries management......................................           12,530   ................  ................          -12,530   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          115,811   ................  ................         -115,811   ................
 
Threatened and endangered species.............................           21,567   ................  ................          -21,567   ................
 
Wildlife and Aquatic Habitat Management:
    Wildlife habitat management...............................  ................           81,753           126,848          +126,848           +45,095
        Threatened and endangered species.....................  ................  ................          (21,567)         (+21,567)         (+21,567)
    Aquatic habitat management................................  ................           37,664            55,656           +55,656           +17,992
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................  ................          119,417           182,504          +182,504           +63,087
 
Recreation Management:
    Wilderness management.....................................           18,264            11,871            18,264   ................           +6,393
    Recreation resources management...........................           54,465            53,234            58,465            +4,000            +5,231
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           72,729            65,105            76,729            +4,000           +11,624
 
Energy and Minerals:
    Oil and gas management....................................           85,947            83,101            88,947            +3,000            +5,846
    Oil and gas permit processing.............................            7,365             5,737             7,365   ................           +1,628
    Oil and gas inspection and enforcement....................           48,385            48,385            48,385   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Oil and gas...................................          141,697           137,223           144,697            +3,000            +7,474
 
    Coal management...........................................           11,868            19,533            14,868            +3,000            -4,665
    Other mineral resources...................................           12,043            12,167            12,167              +124   ................
    Renewable energy..........................................           28,320            16,043            24,320            -4,000            +8,277
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Energy and Minerals...........................          193,928           184,966           196,052            +2,124           +11,086
 
Realty and Ownership Management:
    Alaska conveyance.........................................           22,000            13,580            22,000   ................           +8,420
    Cadastral, lands, and realty management...................           52,480            48,290            52,480   ................           +4,190
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           74,480            61,870            74,480   ................          +12,610
 
Resource Protection and Maintenance:
    Resource management planning..............................           60,125            36,131            65,125            +5,000           +28,994
    Abandoned mine lands......................................           20,036   ................  ................          -20,036   ................
    Resource protection and law enforcement...................           27,616            24,166            27,616   ................           +3,450
    Hazardous materials management............................           15,463   ................  ................          -15,463   ................
    Abandoned minelands and hazardous materials management....  ................           13,260            40,499           +40,499           +27,239
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          123,240            73,557           133,240           +10,000           +59,683
 
Transportation and Facilities Maintenance:
    Annual maintenance........................................           39,125            33,613            39,125   ................           +5,512
    Deferred maintenance......................................           79,201            24,886            59,201           -20,000           +34,315
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          118,326            58,499            98,326           -20,000           +39,827
 
Workforce and Organizational Support:
    Administrative support....................................           58,694            47,072            58,694   ................          +11,622
    Bureauwide fixed costs....................................           93,176            96,480            96,480            +3,304   ................
    Information technology management.........................           26,077            23,653            26,077   ................           +2,424
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          177,947           167,205           181,251            +3,304           +14,046
 
National landscape conservation system, base program..........           36,819            26,260            41,819            +5,000           +15,559
Communication site management.................................            2,000             2,000             2,000   ................  ................
Offsetting collections........................................           -2,000            -2,000            -2,000   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Management of lands and resources.............        1,183,043           930,624         1,196,143           +13,100          +265,519
 
Mining Law Administration:
    Administration............................................           39,696            39,696            39,696   ................  ................
    Offsetting collections....................................          -56,696           -59,000           -59,000            -2,304   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Mining Law Administration.....................          -17,000           -19,304           -19,304            -2,304   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Management of Lands and Resources................        1,166,043           911,320         1,176,839           +10,796          +265,519
                                                               =========================================================================================
                         Construction
 
Rescission....................................................  ................           -5,465   ................  ................           +5,465
 
                       Land Acquisition
 
Acquisitions..................................................           13,300   ................           13,400              +100           +13,400
Acquisition management........................................            2,000             1,996             2,000   ................               +4
Recreational access...........................................            8,000   ................            9,000            +1,000            +9,000
Emergencies, hardships, and inholdings........................            1,616             1,396             1,616   ................             +220
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           24,916             3,392            26,016            +1,100           +22,624
 
Rescission....................................................  ................          -10,000   ................  ................          +10,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Land Acquisition.................................           24,916            -6,608            26,016            +1,100           +32,624
                                                               =========================================================================================
               Oregon and California Grant Lands
 
Western Oregon resources management...........................           94,445   ................           94,445   ................          +94,445
Oregon and California grant lands management..................  ................           82,222   ................  ................          -82,222
Western Oregon information and resource data systems..........            1,798             1,327             1,327              -471   ................
Western Oregon transportation & facilities maintenance........            9,628             6,118             9,628   ................           +3,510
Western Oregon construction and acquisition...................              335               364               364               +29   ................
Western Oregon national monument..............................              779   ................              779   ................             +779
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Oregon and California Grant Lands................          106,985            90,031           106,543              -442           +16,512
                                                               =========================================================================================
                      Range Improvements
 
Current appropriations........................................           10,000            10,000            10,000   ................  ................
 
          Service Charges, Deposits, and Forfeitures
 
Service charges, deposits, and forfeitures....................           24,595            25,850            25,850            +1,255   ................
Offsetting fees...............................................          -24,595           -25,850           -25,850            -1,255   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Total, Service Charges, Deposits & Forfeitures..........  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
    Miscellaneous Trust Funds and Permanent Operating Funds
 
Current appropriations........................................           24,000            24,000            24,000   ................  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT........................        1,331,944         1,023,278         1,343,398           +11,454          +320,120
                                                               =========================================================================================
            UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
 
                      Resource Management
 
Ecological Services:
    Listing...................................................           18,818            10,941            17,818            -1,000            +6,877
    Planning and consultation.................................          105,579            98,828           106,079              +500            +7,251
    Conservation and restoration..............................           32,396            21,187            32,396   ................          +11,209
        (National Wetlands Inventory).........................           (3,471)           (3,447)           (3,471)  ................             (+24)
        (Coastal Barrier Resources Act).......................           (1,390)           (1,381)           (1,390)  ................              (+9)
    Recovery..................................................           91,032            80,820            93,724            +2,692           +12,904
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          247,825           211,776           250,017            +2,192           +38,241
 
Habitat conservation:
    Partners for fish and wildlife............................           51,633            35,765            51,633   ................          +15,868
    Coastal programs..........................................           13,375             6,512            13,375   ................           +6,863
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           65,008            42,277            65,008   ................          +22,731
 
National Wildlife Refuge System:
    Wildlife and habitat management...........................          233,392           228,332           237,467            +4,075            +9,135
    Visitor services..........................................           73,319            71,267            73,319   ................           +2,052
    Refuge law enforcement....................................           38,054            37,983            37,983               -71   ................
    Conservation planning.....................................            2,523   ................            2,523   ................           +2,523
    Refuge maintenance........................................          139,469           135,487           139,888              +419            +4,401
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          486,757           473,069           491,180            +4,423           +18,111
 
Conservation and Enforcement:
    Migratory bird management.................................           48,421            46,290            49,660            +1,239            +3,370
    Law enforcement...........................................           77,053            69,453            80,053            +3,000           +10,600
    International affairs.....................................           15,816            14,484            17,194            +1,378            +2,710
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          141,290           130,227           146,907            +5,617           +16,680
 
Fish and Aquatic Conservation:
    National fish hatchery system operations..................           55,822            49,979            55,822   ................           +5,843
    Maintenance and equipment.................................           22,920            19,808            22,920   ................           +3,112
    Aquatic habitat and species conservation..................           85,885            64,106            86,485              +600           +22,379
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          164,627           133,893           165,227              +600           +31,334
 
Cooperative landscape conservation............................           12,988   ................           12,988   ................          +12,988
 
Science Support:
    Adaptive science..........................................           10,517   ................            9,517            -1,000            +9,517
    Service science...........................................            6,750   ................            6,750   ................           +6,750
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           17,267   ................           16,267            -1,000           +16,267
 
General Operations:
    Central office operations.................................           36,965            43,049            43,049            +6,084   ................
    Regional office operations................................           33,574            32,860            32,860              -714   ................
    Servicewide bill paying...................................           36,365            36,528            36,528              +163   ................
    National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.....................            7,022             5,009             7,022   ................           +2,013
    National Conservation Training Center.....................           29,314            21,956            25,014            -4,300            +3,058
    Aviation Management.......................................  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          143,240           139,402           144,473            +1,233            +5,071
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Resource Management..............................        1,279,002         1,130,644         1,292,067           +13,065          +161,423
                                                               =========================================================================================
                         Construction
 
Construction and rehabilitation:
    Line item construction projects...........................            9,093             9,093             9,093   ................  ................
    Bridge and dam safety programs............................            1,972             1,232             1,972   ................             +740
    Nationwide engineering service............................            5,475             5,421             5,475   ................              +54
    Deferred maintenance......................................           50,000   ................           33,873           -16,127           +33,873
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           66,540            15,746            50,413           -16,127           +34,667
 
    Rescission................................................  ................           -2,000   ................  ................           +2,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Construction.....................................           66,540            13,746            50,413           -16,127           +36,667
                                                               =========================================================================================
                       Land Acquisition
 
Acquisitions..................................................           31,250   ................           22,100            -9,150           +22,100
Acquisition management........................................           12,773             9,615            12,773   ................           +3,158
Recreational access...........................................            2,500   ................            3,000              +500            +3,000
Emergencies, hardships, and inholdings........................            5,351             1,641             5,351   ................           +3,710
Exchanges.....................................................            1,500               697             1,500   ................             +803
Land protection planning......................................              465   ................              465   ................             +465
Highlands Conservation Act Grants.............................           10,000   ................  ................          -10,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           63,839            11,953            45,189           -18,650           +33,236
 
Rescission....................................................  ................           -5,000   ................  ................           +5,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Land Acquisition.................................           63,839             6,953            45,189           -18,650           +38,236
                                                               =========================================================================================
       Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund
 
Grants and administration:
    Conservation grants.......................................           12,508   ................           10,508            -2,000           +10,508
    HCP assistance grants.....................................            7,485   ................            5,485            -2,000            +5,485
    Administration............................................            2,702   ................            2,702   ................           +2,702
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           22,695   ................           18,695            -4,000           +18,695
 
Land acquisition:
    Species recovery land acquisition.........................           11,162   ................           11,162   ................          +11,162
    HCP land acquisition grants to states.....................           19,638   ................           19,638   ................          +19,638
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           30,800   ................           30,800   ................          +30,800
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Total, Cooperatiave Endangered Species Conservation Fund           53,495   ................           49,495            -4,000           +49,495
                                                               =========================================================================================
                 National Wildlife Refuge Fund
 
Payments in lieu of taxes.....................................           13,228   ................           13,228   ................          +13,228
 
           North American Wetlands Conservation Fund
 
North American Wetlands Conservation Fund.....................           40,000            33,600            43,000            +3,000            +9,400
 
            Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation
 
Migratory bird grants.........................................            3,910             3,900             3,910   ................              +10
 
            Multinational Species Conservation Fund
 
African elephant conservation fund............................            2,582             1,401             2,782              +200            +1,381
Asian elephant conservation fund..............................            1,557               845             1,757              +200              +912
Rhinoceros and tiger conservation fund........................            3,440             1,865             3,640              +200            +1,775
Great ape conservation fund...................................            1,975             1,071             2,175              +200            +1,104
Marine turtle conservation fund...............................            1,507               818             1,707              +200              +889
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Multinational Species Conservation Fund..........           11,061             6,000            12,061            +1,000            +6,061
                                                               =========================================================================================
               State and Tribal Wildlife Grants
 
State wildlife grants (formula)...............................           53,000            31,286            55,000            +2,000           +23,714
State wildlife grants (competitive)...........................            6,362   ................            6,362   ................           +6,362
Tribal wildlife grants........................................            4,209   ................            4,209   ................           +4,209
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, State and tribal wildlife grants.................           63,571            31,286            65,571            +2,000           +34,285
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE...................        1,594,646         1,226,129         1,574,934           -19,712          +348,805
                                                               =========================================================================================
                     NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
 
             Operation of the National Park System
 
Park Management:
    Resource stewardship......................................          334,437           327,223           334,437   ................           +7,214
    Visitor services..........................................          255,683           258,115           255,683   ................           -2,432
    Park protection...........................................          362,226           365,766           357,226            -5,000            -8,540
    Facility operations and maintenance.......................          810,019           781,963           825,019           +15,000           +43,056
    Park support..............................................          536,032           506,617           548,432           +12,400           +41,815
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................        2,298,397         2,239,684         2,320,797           +22,400           +81,113
 
External administrative costs.................................          179,572           185,433           179,572   ................           -5,861
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Operation of the National Park System............        2,477,969         2,425,117         2,500,369           +22,400           +75,252
                                                               =========================================================================================
             National Recreation and Preservation
 
Natural programs..............................................           14,170            11,139            14,170   ................           +3,031
Cultural programs.............................................           25,062            19,333            25,562              +500            +6,229
International park affairs....................................            1,648               970             1,648   ................             +678
Environmental and compliance review...........................              433               387               433   ................              +46
Grant administration..........................................            2,004   ................            2,004   ................           +2,004
Heritage Partnership Programs.................................           20,321               370            20,321   ................          +19,951
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, National Recreation and Preservation.............           63,638            32,199            64,138              +500           +31,939
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  Historic Preservation Fund
 
State historic preservation offices...........................           48,925            26,934            48,925   ................          +21,991
Tribal grants.................................................           11,485             5,738            11,485   ................           +5,747
Competitive grants............................................           13,500   ................           13,500   ................          +13,500
Save America's Treasures grants...............................           13,000   ................            5,000            -8,000            +5,000
Historic Revitalization grants................................            5,000   ................            5,000   ................           +5,000
Grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities........            5,000   ................            8,000            +3,000            +8,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Historic Preservation Fund.......................           96,910            32,672            91,910            -5,000           +59,238
                                                               =========================================================================================
                         Construction
 
General Program:
    Line item construction and maintenance....................          137,011           157,011           157,011           +20,000   ................
    Emergency and unscheduled.................................            3,848             3,829             3,829               -19   ................
    Housing...................................................            2,200             2,187             2,187               -13   ................
    Dam safety................................................            1,247             1,240             1,240                -7   ................
    Equipment replacement.....................................           13,474             8,408             8,408            -5,066   ................
    Planning, construction....................................           12,711            17,453            17,453            +4,742   ................
    Construction program management...........................           38,713            41,000            41,000            +2,287   ................
    General management plans..................................           12,500            10,205            10,205            -2,295   ................
    General program increase..................................          138,000   ................          123,371           -14,629          +123,371
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Construction.....................................          359,704           241,333           364,704            +5,000          +123,371
                                                               =========================================================================================
Land and Water Conservation Fund (rescission of contract        ................          -28,140   ................  ................          +28,140
 authority)...................................................
 
             Land Acquisition and State Assistance
 
Assistance to States:
    State conservation grants (formula).......................          100,000   ................          100,000   ................         +100,000
    State conservation grants (competitive)...................           20,000   ................           20,000   ................          +20,000
    Administrative expenses...................................            4,006   ................            4,006   ................           +4,006
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          124,006   ................          124,006   ................         +124,006
 
National Park Service:
    Acquisitions..............................................           26,400   ................           13,903           -12,497           +13,903
    Acquisition management....................................            9,679             8,788             9,679   ................             +891
    Recreational access.......................................            2,000   ................            3,000            +1,000            +3,000
    Emergencies, hardships, relocations, and deficiencies.....            3,928   ................            3,928   ................           +3,928
    Inholdings, donations, and exchanges......................            4,928   ................            4,928   ................           +4,928
    American Battlefield Protection Program...................           10,000   ................           15,000            +5,000           +15,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           56,935             8,788            50,438            -6,497           +41,650
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Land Acquisition and State Assistance.........          180,941             8,788           174,444            -6,497          +165,656
 
Rescission....................................................  ................          -10,000   ................  ................          +10,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Land Acquisition and State Assistance............          180,941            -1,212           174,444            -6,497          +175,656
                                                               =========================================================================================
Centennial Challenge..........................................           23,000   ................           23,000   ................          +23,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
 
      TOTAL, NATIONAL PARK SERVICE............................        3,202,162         2,701,969         3,218,565           +16,403          +516,596
                                                               =========================================================================================
                UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
 
             Surveys, Investigations, and Research
 
Ecosystems:
    Status and trends.........................................           20,473            11,325            20,473   ................           +9,148
    Fisheries: Aquatic and endangered resources...............           20,136             9,701            20,136   ................          +10,435
    Wildlife: Terrestrial and endangered resources............           46,007            33,440            46,257              +250           +12,817
    Terrestrial, Freshwater and marine environments...........           36,415            24,569            36,415   ................          +11,846
    Invasive species..........................................           17,330            17,096            17,330   ................             +234
    Cooperative research units................................           17,371   ................           17,621              +250           +17,621
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Ecosystems.......................................          157,732            96,131           158,232              +500           +62,101
                                                               =========================================================================================
Land Resources:
    National Land Imaging.....................................           93,094            75,514            98,894            +5,800           +23,380
    Land change science.......................................           34,070            14,739            34,070   ................          +19,331
    National and regional climate adaptation science centers..           25,335            12,989            25,335   ................          +12,346
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Land Resources...................................          152,499           103,242           158,299            +5,800           +55,057
                                                               =========================================================================================
Energy, Minerals, and Environmental Health:
    Mineral and Energy Resources:
    Minerals resources........................................           49,371            58,226            56,371            +7,000            -1,855
    Energy resources..........................................           30,872            25,879            34,672            +3,800            +8,793
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           80,243            84,105            91,043           +10,800            +6,938
 
    Environmental Health:
    Contaminant biology.......................................           10,197   ................           10,197   ................          +10,197
    Toxic substances hydrology................................           12,398   ................           12,398   ................          +12,398
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           22,595   ................           22,595   ................          +22,595
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Energy, Minerals, and Environmental Health.......          102,838            84,105           113,638           +10,800           +29,533
                                                               =========================================================================================
Natural Hazards:
    Earthquake hazards........................................           83,403            50,999            74,003            -9,400           +23,004
    Volcano hazards...........................................           42,621            22,306            30,661           -11,960            +8,355
    Landslide hazards.........................................            3,538             3,511             3,538   ................              +27
    Global seismographic network..............................            6,653             4,937             6,653   ................           +1,716
    Geomagnetism..............................................            1,888   ................            1,888   ................           +1,888
    Coastal/Marine Hazards and Resources......................           40,510            35,549            40,510   ................           +4,961
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Natural Hazards..................................          178,613           117,302           157,253           -21,360           +39,951
                                                               =========================================================================================
Water Resources:
    Water Availability and Use Science Program................           46,052            30,351            46,052   ................          +15,701
    Groundwater and Streamflow Information Program............           74,173            64,915            76,673            +2,500           +11,758
    National Water Quality Program............................           90,829            69,656            90,829   ................          +21,173
    Water Resources Research Act Program......................            6,500   ................            6,500   ................           +6,500
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Water Resources..................................          217,554           164,922           220,054            +2,500           +55,132
                                                               =========================================================================================
Core Science Systems:
    Science, synthesis, analysis, and research................           24,051            19,010            24,051   ................           +5,041
    National cooperative geological mapping...................           24,397            22,390            24,397   ................           +2,007
    National Geospatial Program...............................           67,854            50,878            69,614            +1,760           +18,736
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Core Science Systems.............................          116,302            92,278           118,062            +1,760           +25,784
                                                               =========================================================================================
Science Support:
    Administration and management.............................           80,881            69,534            80,881   ................          +11,347
    Information services......................................           21,947            19,716            21,947   ................           +2,231
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Science Support..................................          102,828            89,250           102,828   ................          +13,578
                                                               =========================================================================================
Facilities:
    Rental payments and operations & maintenance..............          104,927           105,219           104,927   ................             -292
    Deferred maintenance and capital improvement..............           15,164             7,231            15,164   ................           +7,933
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Facilities.......................................          120,091           112,450           120,091   ................           +7,641
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY..................        1,148,457           859,680         1,148,457   ................         +288,777
                                                               =========================================================================================
               BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
 
                    Ocean Energy Management
 
Renewable energy..............................................           21,676            20,720            20,720              -956   ................
Conventional energy...........................................           58,123            61,799            61,799            +3,676   ................
Environmental assessment......................................           73,834            79,774            79,774            +5,940   ................
Executive direction...........................................           17,367            16,973            16,973              -394   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          171,000           179,266           179,266            +8,266   ................
 
Offsetting rental receipts....................................          -55,374           -47,455           -47,455            +7,919   ................
Cost recovery fees............................................           -1,460            -2,361            -2,361              -901   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, offsetting collections........................          -56,834           -49,816           -49,816            +7,018   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      TOTAL, BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT................          114,166           129,450           129,450           +15,284   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
        BUREAU OF SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT
 
         Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement
 
Environmental enforcement.....................................            4,453             4,674             4,674              +221   ................
Operations, safety and regulation.............................          148,454           146,340           146,340            -2,114   ................
Administrative operations.....................................           16,768            18,129            18,129            +1,361   ................
Executive direction...........................................           16,736            18,097            18,097            +1,361   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          186,411           187,240           187,240              +829   ................
 
Offsetting rental receipts....................................          -23,732           -20,338           -20,338            +3,394   ................
Inspection fees...............................................          -50,000           -43,765           -41,765            +8,235            +2,000
Cost recovery fees............................................           -4,139            -3,786            -3,786              +353   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Subtotal, offsetting collections........................          -77,871           -67,889           -65,889           +11,982            +2,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement....          108,540           119,351           121,351           +12,811            +2,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
                      Oil Spill Research
 
Oil spill research............................................           14,899            12,700            12,700            -2,199   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, BUREAU OF SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT...          123,439           132,051           134,051           +10,612            +2,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
     OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND ENFORCEMENT
 
                   Regulation and Technology
 
Environmental protection......................................           88,562            73,877            87,910              -652           +14,033
    Permit fees...............................................               40                40                40   ................  ................
    Offsetting collections....................................              -40               -40               -40   ................  ................
Technology development and transfer...........................           12,801            13,232            12,801   ................             -431
Financial management..........................................              505               495               495               -10   ................
Executive direction...........................................           13,936            13,694            13,694              -242   ................
Civil penalties (indefinite)..................................              100               100               100   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          115,904           101,398           115,000              -904           +13,602
 
Civil penalties (offsetting collections)......................             -100              -100              -100   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Regulation and Technology........................          115,804           101,298           114,900              -904           +13,602
                                                               =========================================================================================
                Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund
 
Environmental restoration.....................................            9,480             6,383             8,834              -646            +2,451
Technology development and transfer...........................            3,544             2,508             2,508            -1,036   ................
Financial management..........................................            5,182             5,144             5,144               -38   ................
Executive direction...........................................            6,466             6,340             6,466   ................             +126
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           24,672            20,375            22,952            -1,720            +2,577
 
State grants..................................................          115,000   ................          115,000   ................         +115,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund..................          139,672            20,375           137,952            -1,720          +117,577
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND                   255,476           121,673           252,852            -2,624          +131,179
       ENFORCEMENT............................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
    BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND BUREAU OF INDIAN EDUCATION
 
                 Operation of Indian Programs
 
Tribal Government:
    Aid to tribal government..................................           28,698            24,326            28,902              +204            +4,576
    Consolidated tribal government program....................           75,429            72,634            75,839              +410            +3,205
    Self governance compacts..................................          165,069           157,790           166,225            +1,156            +8,435
    New tribes................................................            1,120             1,120             1,120   ................  ................
    Small and needy tribes....................................            4,448   ................            4,448   ................           +4,448
    Road maintenance..........................................           34,653            28,318            34,823              +170            +6,505
    Tribal government program oversight.......................            8,550             7,326             8,616               +66            +1,290
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          317,967           291,514           319,973            +2,006           +28,459
 
Human Services:
    Social services...........................................           52,832            32,864            53,084              +252           +20,220
    Welfare assistance........................................           76,000            65,794            76,000   ................          +10,206
    Indian child welfare act..................................           19,080            13,696            19,154               +74            +5,458
    Housing improvement program...............................            9,708   ................            9,708   ................           +9,708
    Human services tribal design..............................              263               259               270                +7               +11
    Human services program oversight..........................            3,180             2,745             3,200               +20              +455
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          161,063           115,358           161,416              +353           +46,058
 
Trust--Natural Resources Management:
    Natural resources, general................................            4,882             4,866             4,919               +37               +53
    Irrigation operations and maintenance.....................           14,009             9,134            14,023               +14            +4,889
    Rights protection implementation..........................           40,161            24,737            40,273              +112           +15,536
    Tribal management/development program.....................           11,652             8,660            12,036              +384            +3,376
    Endangered species........................................            2,693             1,306             2,697                +4            +1,391
    Cooperative landscape conservation........................            9,956   ................            9,956   ................           +9,956
    Integrated resource information program...................            2,971             2,576             2,974                +3              +398
    Agriculture and range.....................................           31,096            27,977            31,251              +155            +3,274
    Forestry..................................................           54,877            48,872            54,736              -141            +5,864
    Water resources...........................................           10,581             8,567            10,614               +33            +2,047
    Fish, wildlife and parks..................................           15,260            11,436            15,287               +27            +3,851
    Resource management program oversight.....................            6,064             5,293             6,104               +40              +811
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          204,202           153,424           204,870              +668           +51,446
 
Trust--Real Estate Services...................................          129,841           105,484           130,680              +839           +25,196
 
Education:
    Elementary and secondary programs (forward funded):
        ISEP formula funds....................................          402,906           378,055           404,165            +1,259           +26,110
        ISEP program adjustments..............................            5,457             2,617             5,479               +22            +2,862
        Education program enhancements........................           12,248             6,341            12,278               +30            +5,937
        Tribal education departments..........................            2,500   ................            2,500   ................           +2,500
        Student transportation................................           56,285            50,802            56,413              +128            +5,611
        Early child and family development....................           18,810   ................           18,810   ................          +18,810
        Tribal grant support costs............................           81,036            73,973            81,036   ................           +7,063
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal..............................................          579,242           511,788           580,681            +1,439           +68,893
 
    Post secondary programs (forward funded):
        Tribal colleges and universities......................           69,793            65,664            69,793   ................           +4,129
        Tribal technical colleges.............................            7,505             6,464             7,505   ................           +1,041
        Haskell & SIPI........................................           16,885   ................           22,694            +5,809           +22,694
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal..............................................           94,183            72,128            99,992            +5,809           +27,864
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal, forward funded education....................          673,425           583,916           680,673            +7,248           +96,757
 
    Elementary and secondary programs:
        Facilities operations.................................           66,608            60,405            66,795              +187            +6,390
        Facilities maintenance................................           59,552            53,723            59,774              +222            +6,051
        Juvenile detention center education...................              500   ................              500   ................             +500
        Johnson O'Malley assistance grants....................           14,903   ................           14,903   ................          +14,903
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
        Subtotal..............................................          141,563           114,128           141,972              +409           +27,844
 
    Post secondary programs:
    Haskell & SIPI............................................           22,513            19,376   ................          -22,513           -19,376
    Tribal colleges and universities supplements..............            1,220             1,148             1,220   ................              +72
    Scholarships & adult education............................           34,996   ................           34,996   ................          +34,996
    Special higher education scholarships.....................            2,992   ................            2,992   ................           +2,992
    Science post graduate scholarship fund....................            2,450   ................            2,450   ................           +2,450
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal..............................................           64,171            20,524            41,658           -22,513           +21,134
 
    Education management:
        Education program management..........................           24,957            15,575            25,053               +96            +9,478
        Education IT..........................................           10,297             7,707            10,302                +5            +2,595
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal..............................................           35,254            23,282            35,355              +101           +12,073
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal, Education...................................          914,413           741,850           899,658           -14,755          +157,808
 
Public Safety and Justice:
    Law enforcement:
        Criminal investigations and police services...........          211,632           190,753           212,559              +927           +21,806
        Detention/corrections.................................          100,456            94,027           102,982            +2,526            +8,955
        Inspections/internal affairs..........................            3,510             3,335             3,528               +18              +193
        Law enforcement special initiatives...................           10,368             8,659            10,412               +44            +1,753
        Indian police academy.................................            4,902             4,665             4,925               +23              +260
        Tribal justice support................................           22,264             7,233            22,271                +7           +15,038
            VAWA..............................................           (2,000)  ................           (2,000)  ................          (+2,000)
            PL 280 courts.....................................          (13,000)  ................          (13,000)  ................         (+13,000)
        Law enforcement program management....................            6,530             5,381             6,555               +25            +1,174
        Facilities operations and maintenance.................           13,657            12,596            13,701               +44            +1,105
    Tribal courts.............................................           30,618            22,110            30,744              +126            +8,634
    Fire protection...........................................            1,583             1,372             1,590                +7              +218
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal..............................................          405,520           350,131           409,267            +3,747           +59,136
 
Community and economic development............................           46,447            35,826            46,579              +132           +10,753
Executive direction and administrative services...............          231,747           209,409           233,447            +1,700           +24,038
(Amounts available until expended, account-wide)..............          (53,991)          (35,598)          (53,991)  ................         (+18,393)
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Operation of Indian Programs.....................        2,411,200         2,002,996         2,405,890            -5,310          +402,894
                                                               =========================================================================================
                    Contract Support Costs
 
Contract support costs........................................          236,600           242,000           242,000            +5,400   ................
Indian self-determination fund................................            5,000             5,000             5,000   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Contract Support Costs...........................          241,600           247,000           247,000            +5,400   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                         Construction
 
Education.....................................................          238,245            72,851           238,250                +5          +165,399
Public safety and justice.....................................           35,309            10,421            35,310                +1           +24,889
Resources management..........................................           67,192            38,026            72,231            +5,039           +34,205
General administration........................................           13,367            11,990            13,628              +261            +1,638
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          354,113           133,288           359,419            +5,306          +226,131
 
Rescission....................................................  ................          -21,367   ................  ................          +21,367
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Construction.....................................          354,113           111,921           359,419            +5,306          +247,498
                                                               =========================================================================================
   Indian Land and Water Claim Settlements and Miscellaneous
                      Payments to Indians
 
Land Settlements:
    White Earth Land Settlement Act (Admin) (Public Law99-264)              625   ................  ................             -625   ................
    Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Act (Public Law100-580)............              250   ................  ................             -250   ................
 
Water Settlements:
    Pyramid Lake Water Rights Settlement (Public Law101-618)..              142   ................  ................             -142   ................
    Navajo Water Resources Development Trust Fund (Public                 4,011   ................  ................           -4,011   ................
     Law111-11)...............................................
    Navajo-Gallup Water Supply Project (Public Law111-11).....           21,720   ................  ................          -21,720   ................
    Pechanga Band of Luiseno Mission Indians Water Rights                 9,192   ................  ................           -9,192   ................
     Settlement Act (Public Law114-322).......................
    Blackfeet Water Rights Settlement (Public Law 114-322)....           19,517   ................  ................          -19,517   ................
Unallocated...................................................  ................           45,644            55,457           +55,457            +9,813
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Indian Land and Water Claim Settlements and                 55,457            45,644            55,457   ................           +9,813
       Miscellaneous Payments to Indians......................
                                                               =========================================================================================
            Indian Guaranteed Loan Program Account
 
Indian guaranteed loan program account........................            9,272             6,699             9,279                +7            +2,580
 
                   Administrative Provisions
 
Rescission....................................................           -8,000   ................  ................           +8,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      TOTAL, BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND BUREAU OF INDIAN            3,063,642         2,414,260         3,077,045           +13,403          +662,785
       EDUCATION..............................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                     DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
 
                    Office of the Secretary
 
Leadership and administration.................................          105,405           107,368           107,368            +1,963   ................
Management services...........................................           18,777            27,305            27,305            +8,528   ................
General reduction.............................................  ................  ................           -3,000            -3,000            -3,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Office of the Secretary..........................          124,182           134,673           131,673            +7,491            -3,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
                        Insular Affairs
 
                   Assistance to Territories
 
Territorial Assistance:
    Office of Insular Affairs.................................            9,448             9,430             9,448   ................              +18
    Technical assistance......................................           18,000            14,671            20,800            +2,800            +6,129
    Maintenance assistance fund...............................            4,000             1,023             4,000   ................           +2,977
    Brown tree snake..........................................            3,500             2,837             3,500   ................             +663
    Coral reef initiative and Natural Resources...............            2,200               946             2,500              +300            +1,554
    Empowering Insular Communities............................            5,000             2,811             5,000   ................           +2,189
    Compact impact............................................            4,000   ................            4,000   ................           +4,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Territorial Assistance........................           46,148            31,718            49,248            +3,100           +17,530
 
American Samoa operations grants..............................           23,002            21,529            23,720              +718            +2,191
Northern Marianas covenant grants.............................           27,720            27,720            27,720   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Total, Assistance to Territories........................           96,870            80,967           100,688            +3,818           +19,721
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  Compact of Free Association
 
Compact of Free Association--Federal services.................            2,813             2,636             2,813   ................             +177
Enewetak support..............................................              550               473               750              +200              +277
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Compact of Free Association...................            3,363             3,109             3,563              +200              +454
 
Compact payments, Palau (Title I, General Provision)..........          123,824   ................  ................         -123,824   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Compact of Free Association......................          127,187             3,109             3,563          -123,624              +454
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Insular Affairs..................................          224,057            84,076           104,251          -119,806           +20,175
                                                               =========================================================================================
                    Office of the Solicitor
 
Legal services................................................           59,951            58,996            58,996              -955   ................
General administration........................................            4,982             4,940             4,940               -42   ................
Ethics........................................................            1,742             1,738             1,738                -4   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Office of the Solicitor..........................           66,675            65,674            65,674            -1,001   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  Office of Inspector General
 
Audit and investigations......................................           38,538            39,522            39,522              +984   ................
Administrative services and information management............           12,485            12,964            12,964              +479   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Office of Inspector General......................           51,023            52,486            52,486            +1,463   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
        Office of Special Trustee for American Indians
 
                    Federal Trust Programs
 
Program operations, support, and improvements.................          117,712           102,370           110,692            -7,020            +8,322
    (Office of Historical Accounting).........................          (18,990)  ................          (19,016)             (+26)         (+19,016)
Executive direction...........................................            1,688             1,697             1,688   ................               -9
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Federal Trust Programs...........................          119,400           104,067           112,380            -7,020            +8,313
                                                               =========================================================================================
               Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
 
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation.............................  ................            3,000   ................  ................           -3,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Office of Special Trustee for American Indians...          119,400           107,067           112,380            -7,020            +5,313
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES.............................          585,337           443,976           466,464          -118,873           +22,488
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   DEPARTMENT-WIDE PROGRAMS
 
                   Wildland Fire Management
 
Fire Operations:
    Preparedness..............................................          332,784           322,179           322,179           -10,605   ................
    Fire suppression..........................................          389,406           388,135           388,135            -1,271   ................
        Additional suppression funding........................  ................  ................          175,865          +175,865          +175,865
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal, Fire operations.............................          722,190           710,314           886,179          +163,989          +175,865
 
Other Operations:
    Fuels management..........................................          184,000           150,603           188,000            +4,000           +37,397
    Burned area rehabilitation................................           20,470             9,467            20,470   ................          +11,003
    Fire facilities...........................................           18,427   ................           18,427   ................          +18,427
    Joint fire science........................................            3,000   ................            3,000   ................           +3,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Other operations..............................          225,897           160,070           229,897            +4,000           +69,827
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Wildland fire management.........................          948,087           870,384         1,116,076          +167,989          +245,692
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, All Wildland Fire Accounts.......................          948,087           870,384         1,116,076          +167,989          +245,692
                                                               =========================================================================================
               Central Hazardous Materials Fund
 
Central hazardous materials fund..............................           10,010             2,000            10,010   ................           +8,010
 
            Natural Resource Damage Assessment Fund
 
Damage assessments............................................            2,000             1,500             2,000   ................             +500
Program management............................................            2,192             1,000             2,192   ................           +1,192
Restoration support...........................................            2,575             1,900             2,575   ................             +675
Oil Spill Preparedness........................................            1,000               200             1,000   ................             +800
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Natural Resource Damage Assessment Fund..........            7,767             4,600             7,767   ................           +3,167
                                                               =========================================================================================
Working Capital Fund..........................................           62,370            56,735            54,735            -7,635            -2,000
 
              Office of Natural Resources Revenue
 
Natural Resources Revenue.....................................          137,757           137,505           137,505              -252   ................
 
                   Payment in Lieu of Taxes
 
Payments to local governments in lieu of taxes................  ................          465,000   ................  ................         -465,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      TOTAL, DEPARTMENT-WIDE PROGRAMS.........................        1,165,991         1,536,224         1,326,093          +160,102          -210,131
                                                               =========================================================================================
                      GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Payments to local governments in lieu of taxes (PILT) (Sec.             530,000   ................          500,000           -30,000          +500,000
 XXX).........................................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, TITLE I, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR..............       13,115,260        10,588,690        13,171,309           +56,049        +2,582,619
          Appropriations......................................      (13,123,260)      (10,670,662)      (13,171,309)         (+48,049)      (+2,500,647)
          Rescissions.........................................          (-8,000)         (-53,832)  ................          (+8,000)         (+53,832)
          Rescissions of contract authority...................  ................         (-28,140)  ................  ................         (+28,140)
                                                               =========================================================================================
           TITLE II--ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
 
                    Science and Technology
 
Clean Air.....................................................          116,541            84,905           116,541   ................          +31,636
    (Atmospheric Protection Program)..........................           (8,018)  ................           (8,018)  ................          (+8,018)
Enforcement...................................................           13,669            10,486            13,669   ................           +3,183
Homeland security.............................................           33,122            28,177            33,122   ................           +4,945
Indoor air and Radiation......................................            5,997             4,666             5,997   ................           +1,331
IT/Data management/Security...................................            3,089             2,725             3,089   ................             +364
Operations and administration.................................           68,339            74,828            68,339   ................           -6,489
 
Pesticide licensing...........................................            6,027             5,058             6,027   ................             +969
Research: Air and energy......................................           91,906            30,711            94,906            +3,000           +64,195
Research: Chemical safety and sustainability..................          126,930            84,004           126,930   ................          +42,926
    (Research: Computational toxicology)......................          (21,409)          (17,213)          (21,409)  ................          (+4,196)
    (Research: Endocrine disruptor)...........................          (16,253)          (10,006)          (16,253)  ................          (+6,247)
Research: National priorities.................................            4,100   ................            5,000              +900            +5,000
Research: Safe and sustainable water resources................          106,257            67,261           106,257   ................          +38,996
Research: Sustainable and healthy communities.................          134,327            52,549           134,327   ................          +81,778
Water: Human health protection................................            3,519             3,595             3,519   ................              -76
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Science and Technology........................          713,823           448,965           717,723            +3,900          +268,758
 
Rescission....................................................           -7,350   ................          -11,250            -3,900           -11,250
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Science and Technology...........................          706,473           448,965           706,473   ................         +257,508
      (By transfer from Hazardous Substance Superfund)........          (15,496)          (17,398)          (17,398)          (+1,902)  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
             Environmental Programs and Management
 
Brownfields...................................................           25,593            16,082            25,593   ................           +9,511
Clean air.....................................................          273,108           142,901           273,108   ................         +130,207
    (Atmospheric Protection Program)..........................          (95,436)          (13,542)          (95,436)  ................         (+81,894)
Compliance....................................................          101,665            86,374           101,665   ................          +15,291
Enforcement...................................................          240,637           197,280           240,637   ................          +43,357
    (Environmental justice)...................................           (6,737)           (2,000)           (6,737)  ................          (+4,737)
Environmental protection: National priorities.................           12,700   ................           15,000            +2,300           +15,000
 
Geographic programs:
    Great Lakes Restoration Initiative........................          300,000            30,000           300,000   ................         +270,000
    Chesapeake Bay............................................           73,000             7,300            73,000   ................          +65,700
    San Franciso Bay..........................................            4,819   ................            4,819   ................           +4,819
    Puget Sound...............................................           28,000   ................           28,000   ................          +28,000
    Long Island Sound.........................................           12,000   ................           12,000   ................          +12,000
    Gulf of Mexico............................................           12,542   ................           14,542            +2,000           +14,542
    South Florida.............................................            1,704   ................            3,204            +1,500            +3,204
    Lake Champlain............................................            8,399   ................           11,000            +2,601           +11,000
    Lake Pontchartrain........................................              948   ................              948   ................             +948
    Southern New England Estuaries............................            5,000   ................            5,000   ................           +5,000
    Columbia River Basin......................................  ................  ................            1,000            +1,000            +1,000
    Other geographic activities...............................            1,445   ................            1,445   ................           +1,445
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          447,857            37,300           454,958            +7,101          +417,658
 
Homeland security.............................................           10,195             9,760            10,195   ................             +435
Indoor air and radiation......................................           27,637             4,221            27,637   ................          +23,416
Information exchange/Outreach.................................          126,538            85,586           126,538   ................          +40,952
    (Children and other sensitive populations: Agency                    (6,548)           (2,018)           (6,548)  ................          (+4,530)
     coordination)............................................
    (Environmental education).................................           (8,702)  ................           (8,702)  ................          (+8,702)
International programs........................................           15,400             4,188            15,400   ................          +11,212
IT/Data management/Security...................................           90,536            83,019            94,511            +3,975           +11,492
Legal/science/regulatory/economic review......................          111,414           100,652           111,414   ................          +10,762
Operations and administration.................................          480,751           480,206           480,751   ................             +545
Pesticide licensing...........................................          109,363            79,760           109,363   ................          +29,603
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).................          109,377            73,851           112,377            +3,000           +38,526
Toxics risk review and prevention.............................           92,521            58,626            92,521   ................          +33,895
    (Endocrine disruptors)....................................           (7,553)  ................           (7,553)  ................          (+7,553)
Underground storage tanks (LUST/UST)..........................           11,295             5,615            11,295   ................           +5,680
 
Water: Ecosystems:
    National estuary program / Coastal waterways..............           26,723   ................           26,723   ................          +26,723
    Wetlands..................................................           21,065            17,913            21,065   ................           +3,152
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           47,788            17,913            47,788   ................          +29,875
 
Water: Human health protection................................           98,507            80,543            98,507   ................          +17,964
Water quality protection......................................          210,417           174,975           210,417   ................          +35,442
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Environmental Programs and Management.........        2,643,299         1,738,852         2,659,675           +16,376          +920,823
 
Energy Star (legislative proposal)............................  ................           46,000   ................  ................          -46,000
Offsetting collections, Energy Star (legislative proposal)....  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
Rescission....................................................          -45,300   ................          -61,676           -16,376           -61,676
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Environmental Programs and Management............        2,597,999         1,784,852         2,597,999   ................         +813,147
                                                               =========================================================================================
        Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest System Fund
 
E-Manifest System Fund........................................            3,674   ................  ................           -3,674   ................
Offsetting Collections........................................           -3,674   ................  ................           +3,674   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest System Fund..  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  Office of Inspector General
 
Audits, evaluations, and investigations.......................           41,489            37,475            41,489   ................           +4,014
(by transfer from Hazardous Substance Superfund)..............           (8,778)           (8,718)           (8,718)             (-60)  ................
 
                   Buildings and Facilities
 
Homeland security: Protection of EPA personnel and                        6,676             6,176             6,676   ................             +500
 infrastructure...............................................
Operations and administration.................................           27,791            33,377            27,791   ................           -5,586
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Buildings and Facilities.........................           34,467            39,553            34,467   ................           -5,086
                                                               =========================================================================================
                 Hazardous Substance Superfund
 
Audits, evaluations, and investigations.......................            8,778             8,718             8,778   ................              +60
Compliance....................................................              995               988               995   ................               +7
Enforcement...................................................          166,375           164,691           166,375   ................           +1,684
Homeland security.............................................           32,616            32,686            32,616   ................              -70
Indoor air and radiation......................................            1,985             1,972             1,985   ................              +13
Information exchange/Outreach.................................            1,328             1,319             1,328   ................               +9
IT/data management/security...................................           14,485            18,906            14,485   ................           -4,421
Legal/science/regulatory/economic review......................            1,253               577             1,253   ................             +676
Operations and administration.................................          128,105           124,700           128,105   ................           +3,405
Research: Chemical safety and sustainability..................            2,824             5,021             2,824   ................           -2,197
Research: Sustainable communities.............................           11,463            10,885            11,463   ................             +578
 
Superfund cleanup:
    Superfund: Emergency response and removal.................          181,306           181,306           181,306   ................  ................
    Superfund: Emergency preparedness.........................            7,636             7,584             7,636   ................              +52
    Superfund: Federal facilities.............................           21,125            20,982            21,125   ................             +143
    Superfund: Remedial.......................................          511,673           508,495           511,673   ................           +3,178
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Subtotal................................................          721,740           718,367           721,740   ................           +3,373
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Hazardous Substance Superfund....................        1,091,947         1,088,830         1,091,947   ................           +3,117
      (Transfer out to Inspector General).....................          (-8,778)          (-8,718)          (-8,718)             (+60)  ................
      (Transfer out to Science and Technology)................         (-15,496)         (-17,398)         (-17,398)          (-1,902)  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund [LUST]
 
Enforcement...................................................              620               589               620   ................              +31
Operations and administration.................................            1,352             1,331             1,352   ................              +21
Research: Sustainable communities.............................              320               320               320   ................  ................
Underground storage tanks (LUST/UST)..........................           89,649            45,292            89,649   ................          +44,357
    (LUST/UST)................................................           (9,240)           (6,452)           (9,240)  ................          (+2,788)
    (LUST cooperative agreements).............................          (55,040)          (38,840)          (55,040)  ................         (+16,200)
    (Energy Policy Act grants)................................          (25,369)  ................          (25,369)  ................         (+25,369)
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund......           91,941            47,532            91,941   ................          +44,409
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   Inland Oil Spill Program
 
Compliance....................................................              139   ................              139   ................             +139
Enforcement...................................................            2,413             2,219             2,413   ................             +194
Oil...........................................................           14,409            12,273            14,409   ................           +2,136
Operations and administration.................................              584               665               584   ................              -81
Research: Sustainable communities.............................              664               516               664   ................             +148
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Inland Oil Spill Program.........................           18,209            15,673            18,209   ................           +2,536
                                                               =========================================================================================
           State and Tribal Assistance Grants [STAG]
 
Alaska Native villages........................................           20,000             3,000            25,000            +5,000           +22,000
Brownfields projects..........................................           80,000            62,000            80,000   ................          +18,000
Clean water state revolving fund [SRF]........................        1,393,887         1,393,887         1,394,000              +113              +113
Diesel emissions grants.......................................           75,000            10,000            50,000           -25,000           +40,000
Drinking water state revolving fund [SRF].....................          863,233           863,233           864,000              +767              +767
Mexico border.................................................           10,000   ................           15,000            +5,000           +15,000
Targeted airshed grants.......................................           40,000   ................           50,000           +10,000           +50,000
Water quality monitoring (Public Law 114-322).................            4,000   ................            4,000   ................           +4,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Infrastructure assistance grants..............        2,486,120         2,332,120         2,482,000            -4,120          +149,880
 
Categorical grants:
    Beaches protection........................................            9,549   ................            9,549   ................           +9,549
    Brownfields...............................................           47,745            31,791            47,745   ................          +15,954
    Environmental information.................................            9,646             6,422             9,646   ................           +3,224
    Hazardous waste financial assistance......................           99,693            66,381            99,693   ................          +33,312
    Lead......................................................           14,049   ................           14,049   ................          +14,049
    Nonpoint source (Sec. 319)................................          170,915   ................          170,915   ................         +170,915
    Pesticides enforcement....................................           18,050            10,531            18,050   ................           +7,519
    Pesticides program implementation.........................           12,701             8,457            12,701   ................           +4,244
    Pollution control (Sec. 106)..............................          230,806           153,683           230,806   ................          +77,123
    (Water quality monitoring)................................          (17,848)          (11,884)          (17,848)  ................          (+5,964)
    Pollution prevention......................................            4,765   ................            4,765   ................           +4,765
    Public water system supervision...........................          101,963            67,892           101,963   ................          +34,071
    Radon.....................................................            8,051   ................            8,051   ................           +8,051
    State and local air quality management....................          228,219           151,961           228,219   ................          +76,258
    Toxics substances compliance..............................            4,919             3,276             4,919   ................           +1,643
    Tribal air quality management.............................           12,829             8,963            12,829   ................           +3,866
    Tribal general assistance program.........................           65,476            44,233            65,476   ................          +21,243
    Underground injection control (UIC).......................           10,506             6,995            10,506   ................           +3,511
    Underground storage tanks.................................            1,498   ................            1,498   ................           +1,498
    Wetlands program development..............................           14,661             9,762            14,661   ................           +4,899
    Multipurpose grants.......................................           10,000            27,000            27,000           +17,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Categorical grants............................        1,076,041           597,347         1,093,041           +17,000          +495,694
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, State and Tribal Assistance Grants...............        3,562,161         2,929,467         3,575,041           +12,880          +645,574
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program
 
Administrative Expenses.......................................            5,000             3,000             5,000   ................           +2,000
Direct Loan Subsidy...........................................            5,000            17,000             5,000   ................          -12,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation                 10,000            20,000            10,000   ................          -10,000
       Program................................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   Administrative Provisions
 
E-Manifest System Fund........................................  ................            8,000             8,000            +8,000   ................
Offsetting Collections........................................  ................           -8,000            -8,000            -8,000   ................
Rescission....................................................          -96,198          -220,460          -109,078           -12,880          +111,382
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Administrative Provisions.....................          -96,198          -220,460          -109,078           -12,880          +111,382
      TOTAL, TITLE II, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY........        8,058,488         6,191,887         8,058,488   ................       +1,866,601
          Appropriations......................................       (8,207,336)       (6,412,347)       (8,240,492)         (+33,156)      (+1,828,145)
          Rescissions.........................................        (-148,848)        (-220,460)        (-182,004)         (-33,156)         (+38,456)
      (By transfer)...........................................          (24,274)          (26,116)          (26,116)          (+1,842)  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  TITLE III--RELATED AGENCIES
 
                   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
 
Under Secretary for Natural Resources and the Environment.....              875               875               875   ................  ................
 
                        FOREST SERVICE
 
                 Forest and Rangeland Research
 
Forest inventory and analysis.................................           77,000            75,000            77,000   ................           +2,000
Research and development programs.............................          220,000           171,050           223,000            +3,000           +51,950
Fire plan research and development............................  ................           14,750   ................  ................          -14,750
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Forest and Rangeland Research.................          297,000           260,800           300,000            +3,000           +39,200
 
Unobligated balances (rescission).............................  ................           -2,000   ................  ................           +2,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Forest and rangeland research....................          297,000           258,800           300,000            +3,000           +41,200
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  State and Private Forestry
 
Landscape scale restoration...................................           14,000   ................           14,000   ................          +14,000
 
Forest Health Management:
    Federal lands forest health management....................           55,500            51,495            55,500   ................           +4,005
 
    Cooperative lands forest health management................           41,000            34,376            41,000   ................           +6,624
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           96,500            85,871            96,500   ................          +10,629
 
Cooperative Fire Assistance:
    State fire assistance (National Fire Capacity)............           80,000            65,930            80,000   ................          +14,070
    Volunteer fire assistance (Rural Fire Capacity)...........           16,000            11,020            16,000   ................           +4,980
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           96,000            76,950            96,000   ................          +19,050
 
Cooperative Forestry:
    Forest stewardship (Working Forest Lands).................           20,500            19,475            20,500   ................           +1,025
    Forest legacy.............................................           67,025   ................           65,490            -1,535           +65,490
    Community forest and open space conservation..............            4,000   ................            4,000   ................           +4,000
    Urban and community forestry..............................           28,500   ................           28,500   ................          +28,500
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          120,025            19,475           118,490            -1,535           +99,015
 
International forestry........................................            9,000   ................            9,000   ................           +9,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, State and Private Forestry....................          335,525           182,296           333,990            -1,535          +151,694
 
Unobligated balances: Forest legacy (rescission)..............           -5,938            -4,000   ................           +5,938            +4,000
Unobligated balances (rescission).............................  ................           -6,000   ................  ................           +6,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           -5,938           -10,000   ................           +5,938           +10,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, State and Private Forestry.......................          329,587           172,296           333,990            +4,403          +161,694
                                                               =========================================================================================
                    National Forest System
 
Land management planning, assessment and monitoring...........          179,263           156,750           180,000              +737           +23,250
Recreation, heritage and wilderness...........................          257,848           240,236           260,000            +2,152           +19,764
Grazing management............................................           56,856            48,070            57,000              +144            +8,930
Hazardous fuels...............................................          430,000           390,000           435,000            +5,000           +45,000
Forest products...............................................          366,000           341,165           368,000            +2,000           +26,835
Vegetation and watershed management...........................          180,000           165,680           180,000   ................          +14,320
Wildlife and fish habitat management..........................          136,430           118,750           137,000              +570           +18,250
Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration Fund...............           40,000   ................           40,000   ................          +40,000
Minerals and geology management...............................           74,200            64,600            75,000              +800           +10,400
Landownership management (Land Use Authorization and Access)..           74,000            65,550            76,500            +2,500           +10,950
Law enforcement operations....................................          129,153           129,153           129,153   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, National Forest System...........................        1,923,750         1,719,954         1,937,653           +13,903          +217,699
                                                               =========================================================================================
              Capital Improvement and Maintenance
 
Facilities....................................................          151,000            11,162           151,000   ................         +139,838
Roads.........................................................          218,000            71,481           218,000   ................         +146,519
Trails........................................................           80,000            12,065            80,000   ................          +67,935
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Capital improvement and maintenance...........          449,000            94,708           449,000   ................         +354,292
 
Deferral of road and trail fund payment.......................          -15,000           -15,000           -15,000   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Capital improvement and maintenance..............          434,000            79,708           434,000   ................         +354,292
                                                               =========================================================================================
                       Land Acquisition
 
Acquisitions..................................................           50,035   ................           59,497            +9,462           +59,497
Acquisition management........................................            7,352   ................            7,352   ................           +7,352
Recreational access...........................................            4,700   ................            5,000              +300            +5,000
Critical inholdings/wilderness................................            2,000   ................            2,000   ................           +2,000
Cash equalization.............................................              250   ................              250   ................             +250
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           64,337   ................           74,099            +9,762           +74,099
 
Unobligated balances (rescission).............................  ................          -17,000           -16,028           -16,028              +972
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Land Acquisition.................................           64,337           -17,000            58,071            -6,266           +75,071
                                                               =========================================================================================
Acquisition of land for national forests, special acts........              850               700               700              -150   ................
Acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges...............              192               150               150               -42   ................
Range betterment fund.........................................            2,065             1,700             1,700              -365   ................
Gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland                       45                45                45   ................  ................
 research.....................................................
Management of national forest lands for subsistence uses......            2,500             1,850             2,500   ................             +650
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   Wildland Fire Management
 
Fire operations:
    Wildland fire preparedness................................        1,323,520         1,339,620         1,339,620           +16,100   ................
    Wildland fire suppression operations......................        1,056,818         1,165,366         1,165,366          +108,548   ................
      Additional suppression funding..........................          500,000   ................          724,634          +224,634          +724,634
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Fire operations...............................        2,880,338         2,504,986         3,229,620          +349,282          +724,634
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Wildland Fire Management......................        2,880,338         2,504,986         3,229,620          +349,282          +724,634
 
Rescission....................................................  ................          -65,000   ................  ................          +65,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, all wildland fire accounts.......................        2,880,338         2,439,986         3,229,620          +349,282          +789,634
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Forest Service without Wildland Fire Management..        3,054,326         2,218,203         3,068,809           +14,483          +850,606
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, FOREST SERVICE...................................        5,934,664         4,658,189         6,298,429          +363,765        +1,640,240
                                                               =========================================================================================
            DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
 
                     INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE
 
                    Indian Health Services
 
Clinical Services:
    Hospital and health clinics...............................        2,045,128         2,189,688         2,198,623          +153,495            +8,935
    Dental health.............................................          195,283           203,783           203,872            +8,589               +89
    Mental health.............................................           99,900           105,169           105,281            +5,381              +112
    Alcohol and substance abuse...............................          227,788           235,286           245,566           +17,778           +10,280
    Purchased/referred care...................................          962,695           954,957           964,819            +2,124            +9,862
    Indian Health Care Improvement Fund.......................           72,280   ................  ................          -72,280   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................        3,603,074         3,688,883         3,718,161          +115,087           +29,278
 
Preventive Health:
    Public health nursing.....................................           85,043            87,023            89,159            +4,116            +2,136
 
    Health education..........................................           19,871   ................           20,568              +697           +20,568
    Community health representatives..........................           62,888   ................           62,888   ................          +62,888
    Immunization (Alaska).....................................            2,127             2,035             2,127   ................              +92
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          169,929            89,058           174,742            +4,813           +85,684
 
Other services:
    Urban Indian health.......................................           49,315            46,422            49,315   ................           +2,893
    Indian health professions.................................           49,363            43,394            49,558              +195            +6,164
    Tribal management grant program...........................            2,465   ................            2,465   ................           +2,465
    Direct operations.........................................           72,338            73,431            72,338   ................           -1,093
    Self-governance...........................................            5,806             4,787             5,806   ................           +1,019
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          179,287           168,034           179,482              +195           +11,448
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Indian Health Services...........................        3,952,290         3,945,975         4,072,385          +120,095          +126,410
                                                               =========================================================================================
             Special Diabetes Program for Indians
 
Program costs (legislative proposal)..........................  ................          150,000   ................  ................         -150,000
 
                    Contract Support Costs
 
Contract support..............................................          717,970           822,227           822,227          +104,257   ................
 
                   Indian Health Facilities
 
Maintenance and improvement...................................          167,527            75,745           167,527   ................          +91,782
Sanitation facilities construction............................          192,033           101,772           192,033   ................          +90,261
Health care facilities construction...........................          243,480            79,500           243,480   ................         +163,980
Facilities and environmental health support...................          240,758           228,852           250,758           +10,000           +21,906
Equipment.....................................................           23,706            19,952            23,706   ................           +3,754
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Indian Health Facilities.........................          867,504           505,821           877,504           +10,000          +371,683
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE............................        5,537,764         5,424,023         5,772,116          +234,352          +348,093
                                                               =========================================================================================
                 NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
 
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences...........           77,349            53,967            78,349            +1,000           +24,382
 
       AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY
 
Toxic substances and environmental public health..............           74,691            62,000            74,691   ................          +12,691
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES..........        5,689,804         5,539,990         5,925,156          +235,352          +385,166
                                                               =========================================================================================
                    OTHER RELATED AGENCIES
 
               EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental              3,000             2,994             3,005                +5               +11
 Quality......................................................
 
        CHEMICAL SAFETY AND HAZARD INVESTIGATION BOARD
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           11,000             9,500            11,000   ................           +1,500
 
          OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           15,431             4,400             7,400            -8,031            +3,000
 
  INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA NATIVE CULTURE AND
                       ARTS DEVELOPMENT
 
Payment to the Institute......................................            9,835             9,960             9,960              +125   ................
 
                    SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
 
                     Salaries and Expenses
 
Museum and Research Institutes:
    National Air and Space Museum.............................           20,110            20,110            20,110   ................  ................
    Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.....................           24,593            24,593            24,593   ................  ................
    Major scientific instrumentation..........................            4,118             4,118             4,118   ................  ................
    Universe Center...........................................              184               184               184   ................  ................
    National Museum of Natural History........................           49,789            49,789            49,789   ................  ................
    National Zoological Park..................................           27,566            27,566            27,566   ................  ................
    Smithsonian Environmental Research Center.................            4,227             4,227             4,227   ................  ................
    Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute...................           14,486            14,486            14,486   ................  ................
    Biodiversity Center.......................................            1,543             1,543             1,543   ................  ................
    Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/Freer Gallery of Art............            6,273             6,273             6,273   ................  ................
    Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.................            3,084             3,184             3,184              +100   ................
    Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum.....................            5,061             5,086             5,086               +25   ................
    Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.....................            4,687             4,544             4,544              -143   ................
    National Museum of African Art............................            4,654             4,654             4,654   ................  ................
    World Cultures Center.....................................              792               792               792   ................  ................
    Anacostia Community Museum................................            2,355             2,405             2,405               +50   ................
    Archives of American Art..................................            1,933             1,933             1,933   ................  ................
    National Museum of African American History and Culture...           33,079            33,079            33,079   ................  ................
    National Museum of American History.......................           26,504            26,704            26,704              +200   ................
    National Museum of the American Indian....................           32,671            33,242            33,242              +571   ................
    National Portrait Gallery.................................            6,556             6,556             6,556   ................  ................
    Smithsonian American Art Museum...........................           10,239            10,239            10,239   ................  ................
    American Experience Center................................              600               550               600   ................              +50
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Museums and Research Institutes...............          285,104           285,857           285,907              +803               +50
 
Mission enabling:
    Program support and outreach:
        Outreach..............................................            9,333             9,333             9,333   ................  ................
        Communications........................................            2,663             2,839             2,839              +176   ................
        Institution-wide programs.............................           16,784            14,784            16,784   ................           +2,000
        Office of Exhibits Central............................            3,154             3,169             3,169               +15   ................
        Museum Support Center.................................            1,906             1,906             1,906   ................  ................
        Museum Conservation Institute.........................            3,359             3,359             3,359   ................  ................
        Smithsonian Institution Archives......................            2,408             2,423             2,423               +15   ................
        Smithsonian Institution Libraries.....................           11,273            11,373            11,273   ................             -100
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Subtotal, Program support and outreach................           50,880            49,186            51,086              +206            +1,900
 
Office of Chief Information Officer...........................           51,967            52,509            52,509              +542   ................
Administration................................................           36,314            36,405            36,405               +91   ................
Inspector General.............................................            3,538             3,538             3,538   ................  ................
 
Facilities services:
    Facilities maintenance....................................           77,045            82,045            82,045            +5,000   ................
    Facilities operations, security and support...............          226,596           228,404           228,404            +1,808   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Facilities services...........................          303,641           310,449           310,449            +6,808   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Subtotal, Mission enabling..............................          446,340           452,087           453,987            +7,647            +1,900
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Salaries and expenses............................          731,444           737,944           739,894            +8,450            +1,950
                                                               =========================================================================================
                      Facilities Capital
 
Revitalization................................................          281,603           202,500           280,503            -1,100           +78,003
Facilities planning and design................................           20,300            17,000            23,000            +2,700            +6,000
Construction..................................................           10,000   ................  ................          -10,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Facilities Capital...............................          311,903           219,500           303,503            -8,400           +84,003
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION..........................        1,043,347           957,444         1,043,397               +50           +85,953
                                                               =========================================================================================
                    NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
 
                     Salaries and Expenses
 
Care and utilization of art collections.......................           46,368            44,954            47,080              +712            +2,126
Operation and maintenance of buildings and grounds............           35,854            35,091            36,154              +300            +1,063
Protection of buildings, grounds and contents.................           26,558            27,283            26,958              +400              -325
General administration........................................           33,010            31,396            34,010            +1,000            +2,614
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Salaries and Expenses............................          141,790           138,724           144,202            +2,412            +5,478
                                                               =========================================================================================
        Repair, Restoration and Renovation of Buildings
 
Base program..................................................           24,203             8,176            23,000            -1,203           +14,824
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      TOTAL, NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART..........................          165,993           146,900           167,202            +1,209           +20,302
                                                               =========================================================================================
        JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
 
Operations and maintenance....................................           23,740            24,490            24,490              +750   ................
Capital repair and restoration................................           16,775            13,000            16,800               +25            +3,800
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS...           40,515            37,490            41,290              +775            +3,800
                                                               =========================================================================================
       WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           12,000             7,474            12,000   ................           +4,526
 
      NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES
 
                National Endowment for the Arts
 
                   Grants and Administration
 
Grants:
    Direct grants.............................................           64,819   ................           64,819   ................          +64,819
    Challenge America grants..................................            7,600   ................            7,600   ................           +7,600
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           72,419   ................           72,419   ................          +72,419
 
    State partnerships:
    State and regional........................................           37,996   ................           40,000            +2,004           +40,000
    Underserved set-aside.....................................           10,284   ................           10,431              +147           +10,431
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           48,280   ................           50,431            +2,151           +50,431
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Grants........................................          120,699   ................          122,850            +2,151          +122,850
 
Program support...............................................            1,950   ................            1,950   ................           +1,950
Administration................................................           30,200            28,949            30,200   ................           +1,251
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Arts.............................................          152,849            28,949           155,000            +2,151          +126,051
                                                               =========================================================================================
             National Endowment for the Humanities
 
                   Grants and Administration
 
Grants:
    Federal/State partnership.................................           47,200   ................           48,730            +1,530           +48,730
    Preservation and access...................................           19,000   ................           19,000   ................          +19,000
    Public programs...........................................           14,000   ................           14,000   ................          +14,000
    Research programs.........................................           15,000   ................           15,000   ................          +15,000
    Education programs........................................           12,750   ................           12,750   ................          +12,750
    Program development.......................................              850   ................              850   ................             +850
    Digital humanities initiatives............................            4,600   ................            4,600   ................           +4,600
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Grants........................................          113,400   ................          114,930            +1,530          +114,930
 
Matching Grants:
    Treasury funds............................................            2,200   ................            2,200   ................           +2,200
    Challenge grants..........................................            9,100            13,537             9,100   ................           -4,437
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Matching grants...............................           11,300            13,537            11,300   ................           -2,237
 
Administration................................................           28,148            28,770            28,770              +622   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Humanities.......................................          152,848            42,307           155,000            +2,152          +112,693
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE                    305,697            71,256           310,000            +4,303          +238,744
       HUMANITIES.............................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                    COMMISSION OF FINE ARTS
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................            2,762             2,771             2,771                +9   ................
 
          NATIONAL CAPITAL ARTS AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS
 
Grants........................................................            2,750   ................            2,750   ................           +2,750
 
           ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................            6,400             6,440             6,440               +40   ................
 
             NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................            8,099             7,948             7,948              -151   ................
 
            UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM
 
Holocaust Memorial Museum.....................................           59,000            56,602            59,500              +500            +2,898
 
           DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL COMMISSION
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................            1,800             1,800             1,800   ................  ................
Construction..................................................           45,000            30,000   ................          -45,000           -30,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL COMMISSION.........           46,800            31,800             1,800           -45,000           -30,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
 
            WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................            1,000   ................            1,000   ................           +1,000
 
               WORLD WAR I CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................            7,000             6,000             7,000   ................           +1,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, TITLE III, RELATED AGENCIES......................       13,365,972        11,558,033        13,918,923          +552,951        +2,360,890
          Appropriations......................................      (13,371,910)      (11,652,033)      (13,934,951)        (+563,041)      (+2,282,918)
          Rescissions.........................................          (-5,938)         (-94,000)         (-16,028)         (-10,090)         (+77,972)
          Emergency appropriations............................  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                 TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Treatment of certain hospitals (Sec. 429).....................            8,000   ................  ................           -8,000   ................
Infrastructure (Sec. 435).....................................          766,000   ................          766,000   ................         +766,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, TITLE IV, GENERAL PROVISIONS.....................          774,000   ................          766,000            -8,000          +766,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
                     OTHER APPROPRIATIONS
 
  ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RELIEF
            REQUIREMENTS ACT OF 2017 (P.L. 115-72)
 
                   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
 
                        Forest Service
 
Wildland Fire Management (emergency)..........................          184,500   ................  ................         -184,500   ................
FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Fund (emergency)...........          342,000   ................  ................         -342,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Department of Agriculture........................          526,500   ................  ................         -526,500   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
 
                   Department-Wide Programs
 
Wildland Fire Management (emergency)..........................           50,000   ................  ................          -50,000   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Additional Supplemental Appropriations for                 576,500   ................  ................         -576,500   ................
       Disaster Relief Requirements, 2017.....................
                                                               =========================================================================================
  FURTHER ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER
                RELIEF ACT, 2018 (P.L. 115-123)
 
                  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
 
            United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 
Construction (emergency)......................................          210,629   ................  ................         -210,629   ................
 
                     National Park Service
 
Historic Preservation Fund (emergency)........................           50,000   ................  ................          -50,000   ................
Construction (emergency)......................................          207,600   ................  ................         -207,600   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, National Park Service............................          257,600   ................  ................         -257,600   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                United States Geological Survey
 
Surveys, Investigations, and Research (emergency).............           42,246   ................  ................          -42,246   ................
 
                     Departmental Offices
 
Insular Affairs:
    Assistance to Territories (emergency).....................            3,000   ................  ................           -3,000   ................
Office of Inspector General (emergency).......................            2,500   ................  ................           -2,500   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Departmental Offices.............................            5,500   ................  ................           -5,500   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Department of the Interior.......................          515,975   ................  ................         -515,975   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                Environmental Protection Agency
 
Environmental Programs and Management (emergency).............  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
Hazardous Substance Superfund (emergency).....................            6,200   ................  ................           -6,200   ................
Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund (emergency).......            7,000   ................  ................           -7,000   ................
State and Tribal Assistance Grants (emergency)................           50,000   ................  ................          -50,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Environmental Protection Agency..................           63,200   ................  ................          -63,200   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
 
                        Forest Service
 
State and Private Forestry (emergency)........................            7,500   ................  ................           -7,500   ................
National Forest System (emergency)............................           20,652   ................  ................          -20,652   ................
Capital Improvement and Maintenance (emergency)...............           91,600   ................  ................          -91,600   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Department of Agriculture........................          119,752   ................  ................         -119,752   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Further Additional Supplemental Appropriations             698,927   ................  ................         -698,927   ................
       for Disaster Relief, 2018..............................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      TOTAL, OTHER APPROPRIATIONS.............................        1,275,427   ................  ................       -1,275,427   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      GRAND TOTAL.............................................       36,589,147        28,338,610        35,914,720          -674,427        +7,576,110
          Appropriations......................................      (35,476,506)      (28,735,042)      (36,112,752)        (+636,246)      (+7,377,710)
          Rescissions.........................................        (-162,786)        (-368,292)        (-198,032)         (-35,246)        (+170,260)
          Rescissions of contract authority...................  ................         (-28,140)  ................  ................         (+28,140)
          Emergency appropriations............................       (1,275,427)  ................  ................      (-1,275,427)  ................
(By transfer).................................................          (24,274)          (26,116)          (26,116)          (+1,842)  ................
      TOTAL...................................................       35,313,720        29,857,610        35,914,720          +601,000        +6,057,110
          Mandatory...........................................           61,720            61,720            61,720   ................  ................
          Discretionary.......................................       35,252,000        29,795,890        35,853,000          +601,000        +6,057,110
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         DIVISION B--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
         TITLE II--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS 
                     APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
                 Office of National Drug Control Policy
                     Federal Drug Control Programs
                   OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Drug-Free Communities Support Program.................       $99,000,000
 
    National Community Anti-Drug Coalition training...         2,000,000
Drug court training, including standards training, and         2,000,000
 technical assistance.................................
Anti-doping activities................................         9,500,000
World Anti-Doping Agency [WADA].......................         2,577,000
Activities as authorized by Public Law 109-469,                1,250,000
 section 1105.........................................
Activities as authorized by Public Law 114-198,                3,000,000
 section 103..........................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     TITLE V--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
                     Small Business Administration
                   ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
       Funding levels by program are displayed in the following 
                                 table:
                  ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             Committee
                                                          recommendation
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7(j) Technical Assistance...............................           2,800
Entrepreneurship Education..............................           2,000
Growth Accelerators.....................................           2,000
HUBZone Program.........................................           3,000
Microloan Technical Assistance..........................          31,000
National Women's Business Council.......................           1,500
Native American Outreach................................           2,000
Regional Innovation Clusters............................           5,000
SCORE...................................................          11,500
Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs)..............         130,000
State Trade Expansion Promotion (STEP)..................          18,000
Veterans Outreach.......................................          12,300
PRIME Technical Assistance..............................           2,500
Women's Business Centers (WBC)..........................          18,000
                                                         ---------------
      Total, Entrepreneurial Development Programs.......         241,600
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF NEW BUDGET (OBLIGATIONAL) AUTHORITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018 AND BUDGET ESTIMATES AND AMOUNTS RECOMMENDED IN THE BILL FOR FISCAL
                                                                        YEAR 2019
                                                                [In thousands of dollars]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                        Senate Committee recommendation
                                                                                                                            compared with (+ or -)
                             Item                                     2018         Budget estimate      This Bill    -----------------------------------
                                                                  appropriation                                             2018
                                                                                                                        appropriation    Budget estimate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
 
                     Departmental Offices
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................          201,751           201,751           208,751            +7,000            +7,000
Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence................          141,778           159,000           159,000           +17,222   ................
Cybersecurity Enhancement Account.............................           24,000            25,208            25,208            +1,208   ................
Department-wide Systems and Capital Investments Programs......            4,426             4,000             4,000              -426   ................
Office of Inspector General...................................           37,044            36,000            37,044   ................           +1,044
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration.............          169,634           161,113           169,634   ................           +8,521
Special Inspector General for TARP............................           34,000            17,500            17,500           -16,500   ................
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network..........................          115,003           117,800           117,800            +2,797   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Departmental Offices..........................          727,636           722,372           738,937           +11,301           +16,565
 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund (rescission).........................         -702,000   ................  ................         +702,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Departmental Offices.............................           25,636           722,372           738,937          +713,301           +16,565
                                                               =========================================================================================
Bureau of the Fiscal Service..................................          338,280           330,837           338,280   ................           +7,443
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau......................          111,439           114,427           111,439   ................           -2,988
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program               250,000            14,000           250,000   ................         +236,000
 Account......................................................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Department of the Treasury, non-IRS..............          725,355         1,181,636         1,438,656          +713,301          +257,020
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   Internal Revenue Service
 
Taxpayer Services.............................................        2,506,554         2,241,000         2,506,554   ................         +265,554
Enforcement...................................................        4,860,000         4,628,000         4,860,000   ................         +232,000
    Program Integrity.........................................  ................          204,643   ................  ................         -204,643
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................        4,860,000         4,832,643         4,860,000   ................          +27,357
 
Operations Support............................................        3,634,000         4,155,796         3,709,000           +75,000          -446,796
    Program Integrity.........................................  ................          156,928   ................  ................         -156,928
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................        3,634,000         4,312,724         3,709,000           +75,000          -603,724
 
Business systems modernization................................          110,000           110,000           110,000   ................  ................
General provision (sec. 113)..................................          320,000   ................           77,000          -243,000           +77,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Internal Revenue Service.........................       11,430,554        11,496,367        11,262,554          -168,000          -233,813
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, title I, Department of the Treasury..............       12,155,909        12,678,003        12,701,210          +545,301           +23,207
          Appropriations......................................      (12,857,909)      (12,316,432)      (12,701,210)        (-156,699)        (+384,778)
          Rescissions.........................................        (-702,000)  ................  ................        (+702,000)  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
     TITLE II--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS
                 APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
 
                        The White House
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           55,000            55,000            55,000   ................  ................
 
Executive Residence at the White House:
    Operating expenses........................................           12,917            13,081            13,081              +164   ................
    White House repair and restoration........................              750               750               750   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           13,667            13,831            13,831              +164   ................
 
Council of Economic Advisers..................................            4,187             4,187             4,187   ................  ................
National Security Council and Homeland Security Council.......           11,800            13,500            11,800   ................           -1,700
Office of Administration......................................          100,000           100,000           100,000   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, The White House..................................          184,654           186,518           184,818              +164            -1,700
                                                               =========================================================================================
 
Office of Management and Budget...............................          101,000           103,000           103,000            +2,000   ................
 
            Office of National Drug Control Policy
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           18,400            17,400            18,400   ................           +1,000
High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program.................          280,000   ................          280,000   ................         +280,000
Other Federal Drug Control Programs...........................          117,093            11,843           117,327              +234          +105,484
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Office of National Drug Control Policy...........          415,493            29,243           415,727              +234          +386,484
                                                               =========================================================================================
Unanticipated needs...........................................              798             1,000             1,000              +202   ................
Information Technology Oversight and Reform...................           19,000            25,000            19,000   ................           -6,000
 
Special Assistance to the President and Official Residence of
 the Vice President:
    Salaries and expenses.....................................            4,288             4,288             4,288   ................  ................
    Operating expenses........................................              302               302               302   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................            4,590             4,590             4,590   ................  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, title II, Executive Office of the President and            725,535           349,351           728,135            +2,600          +378,784
       Funds Appropriated to the President....................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                   TITLE III--THE JUDICIARY
 
              Supreme Court of the United States
 
Salaries and expenses:
    Salaries of Justices......................................            3,000             3,000             3,000   ................  ................
    Other salaries and expenses...............................           82,028            84,359            84,703            +2,675              +344
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................           85,028            87,359            87,703            +2,675              +344
 
Care of the Building and Grounds..............................           16,153            15,999            15,999              -154   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Supreme Court of the United States...............          101,181           103,358           103,702            +2,521              +344
                                                               =========================================================================================
    United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
 
Salaries and expenses:
    Salaries of judges........................................            3,000             4,000             4,000            +1,000   ................
    Other salaries and expenses...............................           31,291            31,274            32,016              +725              +742
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, United States Court of Appeals for the Federal              34,291            35,274            36,016            +1,725              +742
       Circuit................................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
          United States Court of International Trade
 
Salaries and expenses:
    Salaries of judges........................................            1,000             2,000             2,000            +1,000   ................
    Other salaries and expenses...............................           18,889            19,070            19,450              +561              +380
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, U.S. Court of International Trade................           19,889            21,070            21,450            +1,561              +380
                                                               =========================================================================================
    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
                           Services
 
Salaries and expenses:
    Salaries of judges and bankruptcy judges..................          435,000           429,000           429,000            -6,000   ................
    Other salaries and expenses...............................        5,099,061         5,132,543         5,154,461           +55,400           +21,918
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................        5,534,061         5,561,543         5,583,461           +49,400           +21,918
 
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund........................            8,230             8,475             8,475              +245   ................
Defender services.............................................        1,078,713         1,141,489         1,140,846           +62,133              -643
Fees of jurors and commissioners..............................           50,944            51,233            49,750            -1,194            -1,483
Court security................................................          586,999           602,309           604,460           +17,461            +2,151
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other            7,258,947         7,365,049         7,386,992          +128,045           +21,943
       Judicial Services......................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
       Administrative Office of the United States Courts
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           90,423            89,867            92,413            +1,990            +2,546
 
                    Federal Judicial Center
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           29,265            29,064            29,819              +554              +755
 
              United States Sentencing Commission
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           18,699            18,548            18,548              -151   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, title III, the Judiciary.........................        7,552,695         7,662,230         7,688,940          +136,245           +26,710
                                                               =========================================================================================
                TITLE IV--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
 
Federal Payment for Resident Tuition Support..................           40,000   ................           30,000           -10,000           +30,000
Federal Payment for Emergency Planning and Security Costs in             13,000            12,000            12,000            -1,000   ................
 the District of Columbia.....................................
Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts............          265,400           244,939           244,939           -20,461   ................
Federal Payment for Defender Services in District of Columbia            49,890            46,005            46,005            -3,885   ................
 Courts.......................................................
Federal Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision          244,298           256,724           256,724           +12,426   ................
 Agency for the District of Columbia..........................
Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Public Defender              41,829            45,858            45,858            +4,029   ................
 Service......................................................
Federal Payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council..            2,000             1,900             2,150              +150              +250
Federal Payment for Judicial Commissions......................              565               565               565   ................  ................
Federal Payment for School Improvement........................           45,000            45,000            52,500            +7,500            +7,500
Federal Payment for the D.C. National Guard...................              435               435               435   ................  ................
Federal Payment for Testing and Treatment of HIV/AIDS.........            5,000             5,000             2,000            -3,000            -3,000
Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Water and Sewer              14,000   ................           10,000            -4,000           +10,000
 Authority....................................................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Title IV, District of Columbia...................          721,417           658,426           703,176           -18,241           +44,750
                                                               =========================================================================================
              TITLE V--OTHER INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
 
Administrative Conference of the United States................            3,100             3,100             3,100   ................  ................
Commodity Futures Trading Commission..........................          249,000           250,000           281,500           +32,500           +31,500
    CFTC Fee Spending (legislative proposal)..................  ................           31,500   ................  ................          -31,500
Consumer Product Safety Commission............................          126,000           123,450           126,000   ................           +2,550
Election Assistance Commission................................           10,100             9,200             9,200              -900   ................
    Election Reform Program...................................          380,000   ................  ................         -380,000   ................
 
               Federal Communications Commission
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................          322,035           333,118           333,118           +11,083   ................
Offsetting fee collections....................................         -322,035          -333,118          -333,118           -11,083   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Direct appropriation....................................  ................  ................  ................  ................  ................
 
General provision (sec. 511)..................................          600,000   ................  ................         -600,000   ................
 
             Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 
Office of Inspector General (by transfer).....................          (39,136)          (42,982)          (42,982)          (+3,846)  ................
 
Deposit Insurance Fund (transfer).............................         (-39,136)         (-42,982)         (-42,982)          (-3,846)  ................
Federal Election Commission...................................           71,250            71,250            71,250   ................  ................
Federal Labor Relations Authority.............................           26,200            26,200            26,200   ................  ................
 
                   Federal Trade Commission
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................          306,317           309,700           309,700            +3,383   ................
Offsetting fee collections (mergers)..........................         -126,000          -136,000          -136,000           -10,000   ................
Offsetting fee collections (telephone)........................          -16,000           -17,000           -17,000            -1,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Direct appropriation....................................          164,317           156,700           156,700            -7,617   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                General Services Administration
 
                    Federal Buildings Fund
 
Limitations on availability of revenue:
    Construction and acquisition of facilities................          692,069         1,338,387         1,080,068          +387,999          -258,319
    Repairs and alterations...................................          666,335           909,746           890,419          +224,084           -19,327
    Rental of space...........................................        5,493,768         5,430,345         5,418,845           -74,923           -11,500
    Building operations.......................................        2,221,766         2,253,195         2,244,118           +22,352            -9,077
    Installment acquisition payments..........................  ................          200,000   ................  ................         -200,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Limitations on Availability of Revenue........        9,073,938        10,131,673         9,633,450          +559,512          -498,223
 
Rental income to fund.........................................       -9,950,519       -10,131,673       -10,131,673          -181,154   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Federal Buildings Fund...........................         -876,581   ................         -498,223          +378,358          -498,223
                                                               =========================================================================================
Government-wide policy........................................           53,499            65,835            58,499            +5,000            -7,336
Operating expenses............................................           45,645            49,440            49,440            +3,795   ................
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals............................            8,795             9,301             9,301              +506   ................
Office of Inspector General...................................           65,000            67,000            67,000            +2,000   ................
Allowances and office staff for former Presidents.............            4,754             4,796             4,796               +42   ................
Federal Citizen Services Fund.................................           50,000            58,400            55,000            +5,000            -3,400
Technology Modernization Fund.................................          100,000           210,000   ................         -100,000          -210,000
Asset Proceeds and Space Management Fund......................            5,000            31,000            15,500           +10,500           -15,500
Environmental Review Improvement Fund.........................            1,000             6,070             6,070            +5,070   ................
GSA--President's Management Council Workforce Fund............  ................           50,000   ................  ................          -50,000
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, General Services Administration..................         -542,888           551,842          -232,617          +310,271          -784,459
                                                               =========================================================================================
Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.........................            1,000   ................            1,000   ................           +1,000
 
                Merit Systems Protection Board
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................           44,490            42,145            44,490   ................           +2,345
Limitation on administrative expenses.........................            2,345             2,345             2,345   ................  ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Merit Systems Protection Board...................           46,835            44,490            46,835   ................           +2,345
                                                               =========================================================================================
        Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation
 
Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund...............            1,975             1,875             1,875              -100   ................
Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund.........................            3,366             3,200             3,200              -166   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Morris K. Udall and Stewart L Udall Foundation...            5,341             5,075             5,075              -266   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
         National Archives and Records Administration
 
Operating expenses............................................          384,911           365,105           375,105            -9,806           +10,000
    Reduction of debt.........................................          -25,050           -27,224           -27,224            -2,174   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal................................................          359,861           337,881           347,881           -11,980           +10,000
 
Office of Inspector General...................................            4,801             4,241             4,801   ................             +560
Repairs and restoration.......................................            7,500             7,500             7,500   ................  ................
National Historical Publications and Records Commission Grants            6,000   ................            6,000   ................           +6,000
 Program......................................................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, National Archives and Records Administration.....          378,162           349,622           366,182           -11,980           +16,560
                                                               =========================================================================================
NCUA Community Development Revolving Loan Fund................            2,000   ................            2,000   ................           +2,000
Office of Government Ethics...................................           16,439            16,294            16,439   ................             +145
 
                Office of Personnel Management
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................          129,341           132,172           132,172            +2,831   ................
    Limitation on administrative expenses.....................          131,414           133,483           133,483            +2,069   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Salaries and expenses.........................          260,755           265,655           265,655            +4,900   ................
 
Office of Inspector General...................................            5,000             5,000             5,000   ................  ................
    Limitation on administrative expenses.....................           25,000            25,265            25,265              +265   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Office of Inspector General...................           30,000            30,265            30,265              +265   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Office of Personnel Management...................          290,755           295,920           295,920            +5,165   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
Office of Special Counsel.....................................           26,535            26,252            26,535   ................             +283
Postal Regulatory Commission..................................           15,200            15,100            15,200   ................             +100
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board...................            8,000             5,000             5,000            -3,000   ................
Public Buildings Reform Board.................................            5,000             2,000   ................           -5,000            -2,000
 
              Securities and Exchange Commission
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................        1,652,000         1,658,302         1,658,302            +6,302   ................
    SEC NYC Regional Office...................................  ................           40,750            37,189           +37,189            -3,561
Headquarters lease............................................          244,507   ................  ................         -244,507   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Securities and Exchange Commission............        1,896,507         1,699,052         1,695,491          -201,016            -3,561
 
    SEC fees..................................................       -1,896,507        -1,699,050        -1,695,491          +201,016            +3,559
    SEC Reserve Fund (rescission).............................  ................          -25,000   ................  ................          +25,000
Selective Service System......................................           22,900            26,400            26,000            +3,100              -400
 
                 Small Business Administration
 
Salaries and expenses.........................................          268,500           265,000           267,500            -1,000            +2,500
Entrepreneurial Development Programs..........................          247,100           192,450           241,600            -5,500           +49,150
Office of Inspector General...................................           19,900            21,900            21,900            +2,000   ................
Office of Advocacy............................................            9,120             9,120             9,120   ................  ................
 
Business Loans Program Account:
    Direct loans subsidy......................................            3,438             4,000             4,000              +562   ................
    Guaranteed loan subsidy...................................  ................         -155,150   ................  ................         +155,150
    Administrative expenses...................................          152,782           155,150           155,150            +2,368   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
      Total, Business loans program account...................          156,220             4,000           159,150            +2,930          +155,150
                                                               =========================================================================================
Disaster Loans Program Account:
    Administrative expenses...................................  ................          186,458   ................  ................         -186,458
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Small Business Administration....................          700,840           678,928           699,270            -1,570           +20,342
                                                               =========================================================================================
                 United States Postal Service
 
Payment to the Postal Service Fund............................           58,118            55,235            55,235            -2,883   ................
Office of Inspector General...................................          245,000           234,650           250,000            +5,000           +15,350
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, United States Postal Service.....................          303,118           289,885           305,235            +2,117           +15,350
                                                               =========================================================================================
United States Tax Court.......................................           50,740            55,563            51,515              +775            -4,048
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, title V, Independent Agencies....................        2,959,944         3,008,773         2,303,539          -656,405          -705,234
          Appropriations......................................       (2,959,944)       (3,033,773)       (2,303,539)        (-656,405)        (-730,234)
          Rescissions.........................................  ................         (-25,000)  ................  ................         (+25,000)
      (By transfer)...........................................          (39,136)          (42,982)          (42,982)          (+3,846)  ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
                 TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
Mandatory appropriations (sec. 619)...........................       21,800,000        21,818,000        21,818,000           +18,000   ................
PCA Oversight Board scholarships (sec. 620)...................            1,000   ................            1,000   ................           +1,000
SBA 503 Unobligated balances (sec. 620).......................           -2,600           -50,000   ................           +2,600           +50,000
Government-wide transfers (sec. 737)..........................  ................        3,000,000   ................  ................       -3,000,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, title VI, General Provisions.....................       21,798,400        24,768,000        21,819,000           +20,600        -2,949,000
                                                               =========================================================================================
                     OTHER APPROPRIATIONS
 
 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RELIEF REQUIREMENTS
                         (P.L. 115-56)
 
SBA, Disaster Loans Progam Account............................          450,000   ................  ................         -450,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief            450,000   ................  ................         -450,000   ................
       Requirements (P.L. 115-56).............................
                                                               =========================================================================================
         BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2018 (P.L. 115-123)
 
GSA, Federal Buildings Fund (emergency).......................          126,951   ................  ................         -126,951   ................
SBA, Office of Inspector General (emergency)..................            7,000   ................  ................           -7,000   ................
SBA, Disaster Loans Program Account (emergency)...............        1,652,000   ................  ................       -1,652,000   ................
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (P.L. 115-123).....        1,785,951   ................  ................       -1,785,951   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Total, Other Appropriations.............................        2,235,951   ................  ................       -2,235,951   ................
          (Emergency).........................................        2,235,951   ................  ................       -2,235,951   ................
                                                               =========================================================================================
      Grand total.............................................       48,149,851        49,124,783        45,944,000        -2,205,851        -3,180,783
          Appropriations......................................      (46,618,500)      (48,838,212)      (45,944,000)        (-674,500)      (-2,894,212)
          Rescissions.........................................        (-704,600)         (-75,000)  ................        (+704,600)         (+75,000)
          Emergency...........................................       (2,235,951)  ................  ................      (-2,235,951)  ................
      (By transfer)...........................................          (39,136)          (42,982)          (42,982)          (+3,846)  ................
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE--RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
                                             [Dollars in thousands]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Program/Activity                                  Authorization                           This bill
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hatch Act...........................  7 U.S.C. 361a-i..........................................          243,701
McIntire-Stennis Cooperative          16 U.S.C. 582a through a-7...............................           36,000
 Forestry Act.
Research at 1890 Institutions (Evans- 7 U.S.C. 3222............................................           54,185
 Allen Program).
Payments to the 1994 Institutions...  534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382..........................            3,439
Education Grants for 1890             7 U.S.C. 3152(b).........................................           19,336
 Institutions.
Education Grants for Hispanic-        7 U.S.C. 3241............................................            9,219
 Serving Institutions.
Education Grants for Alaska Native    7 U.S.C. 3156............................................            3,194
 and Native Hawaiian-Serving
 Institutions.
Research Grants for 1994              536 of Public Law 103-382................................            3,801
 Institutions.
Capacity Building for Non Land-Grant  7 U.S.C. 3319i...........................................            5,000
 Colleges of Agriculture.
Resident Instruction and Distance     7 U.S.C. 3362 and 3363...................................            2,000
 Education Grants for Insular Areas.
Agriculture and Food Research         7 U.S.C. 450i(b).........................................          405,000
 Initiative.
Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment..  7 U.S.C. 3151a...........................................            8,000
Veterinary Services Grant Program...  7 U.S.C. 3151b...........................................            3,000
Continuing Animal Health and Disease  7 U.S.C. 3195............................................            4,000
 Research Program.
Supplemental and Alternative Crops..  7 U.S.C. 3319d...........................................            1,000
Multicultural Scholars, Graduate      7 U.S.C. 3152(b).........................................            9,000
 Fellowship and Institutions
 Challenge Grants.
Secondary and 2-year Post-Secondary   7 U.S.C. 3152(j).........................................              900
 Education.
Aquaculture Centers.................  7 U.S.C. 3322............................................            5,000
Sustainable Agriculture Research and  7 U.S.C. 5811, 5812, 5831, and 5832......................           37,000
 Education.
Farm Business Management............  7 U.S.C. 5925f...........................................            2,000
Sun Grant Program...................  7 U.S.C. 8114............................................            3,000
Minor Crop Pest Management (IR-4)...  7 U.S.C. 450i(c).........................................           11,913
Alfalfa Forage and Research Program.  7 U.S.C. 5925............................................            3,000
Special Research Grants:7 U.S.C.
 450i(c):
    Global Change/UV Monitoring.....  .........................................................            1,405
    Potato Research.................  .........................................................            2,750
    Aquaculture Research............  .........................................................            2,000
                                                                                                ----------------
        Total, Special Research       .........................................................            6,155
         Grants.
                                                                                                ================
Necessary Expenses of Research and
 Education Activities:
    Grants Management System........  .........................................................            7,830
    Federal Administration--Other     .........................................................           11,862
     Necessary Expenses for Research
     and Education Activities.
                                                                                                ----------------
        Total, Necessary Expenses...  .........................................................           19,692
                                                                                                ================
        Total, Research and           .........................................................          898,535
         Education Activities.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                        NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE--EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
                                             [Dollars in thousands]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Program/Activity                                  Authorization                           This bill
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Smith-Lever Act, Section 3(b) and     7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c) and 208(c) of Public Law 93-471..          300,000
 (c) and Cooperative Extension.
Extension Services at 1890            7 U.S.C. 3221............................................           45,620
 Institutions.
Extension Services at 1994            7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3).......................................            6,446
 Institutions.
Facility Improvements at 1890         7 U.S.C. 3222b...........................................           19,730
 Institutions.
Renewable Resources Extension Act...  16 U.S.C. 1671 et seq....................................            4,060
Rural Health and Safety Education     7 U.S.C. 2662(i).........................................            3,000
 Programs.
Food and Animal Residue Avoidance     7 U.S.C. 7642............................................            2,500
 Database Program.
Women and Minorities in STEM Fields.  7 U.S.C. 5925............................................              400
Food Safety Outreach Program........  7 U.S.C. 7625............................................            8,000
Food and Agriculture Service          7 U.S.C. 7633............................................            1,000
 Learning.
Smith-LeverAct, Section 3(d):
    Food and Nutrition Education....  7 U.S.C. 343(d)..........................................           70,000
    Farm Safety and Youth Farm        7 U.S.C. 343(d)..........................................            4,610
     Safety Education Programs.
    New Technologies for              7 U.S.C. 343(d)..........................................            1,550
     Agricultural Extension.
    Children, Youth, and Families at  7 U.S.C. 343(d)..........................................            8,395
     Risk.
    Federally Recognized Tribes       7 U.S.C. 343(d)..........................................            3,039
     Extension Program.
                                     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total, Section 3(d)...........  .........................................................           87,594
Necessary Expenses of Research and
 Education Activities:
    Agriculture in the K-12           .........................................................              552
     Classroom.
    Federal Administration--Other     .........................................................            7,790
     Necessary Expenses for Research
     and Education Activities.
                                     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total, Necessary Expenses...  .........................................................            8,342
        Total, Extension Activities.  .........................................................          486,692
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                        NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE--INTEGRATED ACTIVITIES
                                             [Dollars in thousands]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Program/Activity                                  Authorization                           This bill
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Methyl Bromide Transition Program...  7 U.S.C. 7626............................................            2,000
Organic Transition Program..........  7 U.S.C. 7626............................................            6,000
Regional Rural Development Centers..  7 U.S.C. 450i(c).........................................            2,000
Food and Agriculture Defense          7 U.S.C. 3351............................................            8,000
 Initiative.
Crop Protection/Pest Management.....  7 U.S.C. 343(d)..........................................           20,000
                                                                                                ----------------
      Total, Integrated Activities..  .........................................................           38,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                                   ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  Fiscal year
                                                                 Fiscal year      2019 budget       This bill
                                                                 2018 enacted       request
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Safeguarding and International Technical Assistance:
    Animal Health Technical Services.........................           37,857           30,272           37,857
    Aquatic Animal Health....................................            2,253  ...............            2,253
    Avian Health.............................................           62,840           33,881           62,840
    Cattle Health............................................           96,500           86,326           96,500
    Equine, Cervid and Small Ruminant Health.................           20,000           16,500           20,000
    National Veterinary Stockpile............................            5,725            3,965            5,725
    Swine Health.............................................           24,800           19,753           24,800
    Veterinary Biologics.....................................           16,417           16,386           16,417
    Veterinary Diagnostics...................................           39,540           42,030           50,140
    Zoonotic Disease Management..............................           16,523           15,775           16,523
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Animal Health................................          322,455          264,888          333,055
                                                              ==================================================
    Agricultural Quarantine Inspection (Appropriated)........           31,330  ...............           32,330
    Cotton Pests.............................................           11,520            7,000           11,520
    Field Crop & Rangeland Ecosystems Pests..................            9,326            7,809           11,826
    Pest Detection...........................................           27,446           22,394           27,446
    Plant Protection Methods Development.....................           20,686           15,647           20,686
    Specialty Crop Pests.....................................          178,170          139,500          178,170
    Tree & Wood Pests........................................           56,000           25,000           60,000
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Plant Health.................................          334,478          217,350          341,978
                                                              ==================================================
    Wildlife Damage Management...............................          108,376           46,331          108,376
    Wildlife Services Methods Development....................           18,856           18,820           18,856
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Wildlife Services............................          127,232           65,151          127,232
                                                              ==================================================
    Animal & Plant Health Regulatory Enforcement.............           16,224           16,193           16,224
    Biotechnology Regulatory Services........................           18,875           18,839           18,875
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Regulatory Services..........................           35,099           35,032           35,099
                                                              ==================================================
    Contingency Fund.........................................              470              469              470
    Emergency Preparedness & Response........................           40,966           40,688           41,466
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Emergency Management.........................           41,436           41,157           41,936
                                                              ==================================================
      Subtotal, Safeguarding and Emergency Preparedness/               860,700          623,578          879,300
       Response..............................................
                                                              ==================================================
Safe Trade and International Technical Assistance:
    Agriculture Import/Export................................           15,599           15,070           15,599
    Overseas Technical & Trade Operations....................           22,115           22,072           22,115
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Safe Trade...................................           37,714           37,142           37,714
                                                              ==================================================
Animal Welfare:
    Animal Welfare...........................................           30,810           28,356           30,810
 
    Horse Protection.........................................              705              696              705
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Animal Welfare...............................           31,515           29,052           31,515
                                                              ==================================================
Agency Management:
    APHIS Information Technology Infrastructure..............            4,251            4,243            4,251
    Physical/Operational Security............................            5,146            5,136            5,146
    Rent and DHS security payments...........................           42,567           40,000           42,567
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal, Agency Management............................           51,964           49,379           51,964
                                                              ==================================================
      Total, Direct Appropriation............................          981,893          739,151        1,000,493
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                         FUNDS FOR STRENGTHENING MARKETS, INCOME AND SUPPLY (SECTION 32)
              ESTIMATED TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE AND BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD-- FISCAL YEARS 2018-2019
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                    Fiscal year
                                                                    Fiscal year     2019 budget      This bill
                                                                   2018 enacted       request
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Appropriation (30% of Customs Receipts).........................      10,370,878      10,624,198      10,624,198
Less Transfers:
    Food and Nutrition Service..................................      -8,872,010      -9,092,217      -9,092,217
    Commerce Department.........................................        -154,868        -157,980        -157,980
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Total, Transfers..........................................      -9,026,878      -9,250,197      -9,250,197
 
Prior Year Appropriation Available, Start of Year...............         125,000         125,000         125,000
Transfer of Prior Year Funds to FNS (F&V).......................        -125,000        -125,000        -125,000
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Budget Authority, Farm Bill...............................       1,344,000       1,374,000       1,374,000
Rescission of Current Year Funds................................  ..............        -337,000  ..............
Appropriations Temporarily Reduced--Sequestration...............         -77,418         -74,400         -74,400
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Budget Authority, Appropriations Act......................       1,266,582         962,600       1,299,600
                                                                 ===============================================
Less Obligations:
    Child Nutrition Programs (Entitlement Commodities)..........         465,000         465,000         485,000
    State Option Contract.......................................           5,000           5,000           5,000
    Removal of Defective Commodities............................           2,500           2,500           2,500
    Disaster Relief.............................................          36,000           5,000           5,000
    Additional Fruits, Vegetables, and Nuts Purchases...........         206,000         206,000         206,000
    Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program...........................         171,000         174,000         174,000
    Estimated Future Needs......................................         354,524          48,758          48,758
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Total, Commodity Procurement..............................       1,210,024         906,258         926,258
 
Administrative Funds:
    Commodity Purchase Support..................................          35,853          35,853          35,853
    Marketing Agreements and Orders.............................          20,705          20,489          20,489
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Total, Administrative Funds...............................          56,558          56,342          56,342
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
      Total Obligations.........................................       1,266,582         962,600         982,600
                                                                 ===============================================
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                        CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
                      TOTAL OBLIGATIONAL AUTHORITY
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          Fiscal year
       Child nutrition programs           2019 budget       This bill
                                            request
------------------------------------------------------------------------
School Lunch Program..................       11,713,000       11,713,000
School Breakfast Program..............        5,081,770        5,081,770
Child and Adult Care Food Program.....        3,933,393        3,933,393
Summer Food Service Program...........          519,461          519,461
Special Milk Program..................            8,777            8,777
State Administrative Expenses.........          302,906          302,906
Commodity Procurement.................        1,473,874        1,473,874
Team Nutrition/HUSSC/CMS..............           15,475           17,004
Food Safety Education.................            2,929            2,929
Coordinated Review....................           10,000           10,000
Computer Support......................           12,124           12,124
Training and Technical Assistance.....           13,935           13,935
CNP Studies and Evaluation............           21,639           21,639
Farm to School Team...................            3,497            3,997
Payment Accuracy......................           11,203           11,203
School Meal Equipment Grants..........  ...............           30,000
Summer EBT Demonstration..............           22,957           28,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
       DIVISION C--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
                               FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION SALARIES AND EXPENSES
                                            [In thousands of dollars]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  Fiscal year
                                                                 Fiscal year      2019 budget       This bill
                                                                 2018 enacted       request
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Centers and related field activities:
    Foods....................................................        1,041,615        1,029,863        1,052,315
        Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition [CFSAN].          316,606          315,494          320,106
        Field Activities.....................................          725,009          714,369          732,209
    Human Drugs..............................................          495,603          686,364          555,403
        Center for Drug Evaluation and Research [CDER].......          359,396          548,388          419,196
        Field Activities.....................................          136,207          137,976          136,207
    Biologics................................................          215,443          251,854          218,443
        Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research [CBER]..          174,052          210,755          177,052
        Field Activities.....................................           41,391           41,099           41,391
    Animal Drugs.............................................          172,552          180,284          173,052
        Center for Veterinary Medicine [CVM].................          107,905          115,673          108,405
        Field Activities.....................................           64,647           64,611           64,647
    Medical and radiological devices.........................          330,064          455,442          336,064
        Center for Devices and Radiological Health...........          246,319          372,588          252,319
        Field Activities.....................................           83,745           82,854           83,745
    National Center for Toxicological Research...............           63,331           65,200           65,531
Other Activities.............................................          196,275          198,565          273,075
Rent and related activities..................................          114,987          135,927          114,987
Rental Payments to GSA.......................................          170,208          168,421          170,208
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
      Total, FDA salaries and expenses, new budget authority.        2,800,078        3,171,920        2,959,078
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      DIVISION D--TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, 
                          AND RELATED AGENCIES
                 TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                    Federal Aviation Administration
                                            FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                       Fiscal year--
                                                           ------------------------------------     This bill
                                                              2018 enacted      2019 estimate
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Activity 1--Engineering, Development, Test and Evaluation:
    Advanced Technology Development and Prototyping.......       $26,800,000       $33,000,000       $33,000,000
    William J. Hughes Technical Center Laboratory                  1,000,000  ................  ................
     Improvement..........................................
    William J. Hughes Technical Center Laboratory                 23,000,000        21,000,000        21,000,000
     Sustainment..........................................
    William J. Hughes Technical Center Infrastructure             15,000,000        12,000,000        15,000,000
     Sustainment..........................................
    Separation Management Portfolio.......................        13,500,000        16,589,000        16,000,000
    Traffic Flow Management Portfolio.....................        10,800,000        14,000,000        14,000,000
    On Demand NAS Portfolio...............................        12,000,000        20,500,000        21,000,000
    NAS Infrastructure Portfolio..........................        17,500,000        13,500,000        20,000,000
    NextGen Support Portfolio.............................        12,000,000        12,800,000        12,800,000
    Unmanned Aircraft Systems [UAS].......................        25,000,000        14,000,000        25,000,000
    Enterprise, Concept Development, Human Factors, &              9,000,000         9,500,000        16,500,000
     Demonstrations Portfolio.............................
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Total Activity 1....................................       165,600,000       166,889,000       194,300,000
 
Activity 2--Air Traffic Control Facilities and Equipment:
 
a. En Route Programs:
    En Route Automation Modernization [ERAM]--System              91,650,000       102,050,000       115,250,000
     Enhancements and Tech Refresh........................
    En Route Communications Gateway [ECG].................         2,650,000         1,650,000         1,650,000
    Next Generation Weather Radar [NEXRAD]--Provide.......         5,500,000         5,500,000         7,500,000
    Air Route Traffic Control Center [ARTCC] & Combined          120,400,000        88,050,000       100,000,000
     Control Facility [CCF] Building Improvements.........
    Air Traffic Management [ATM]..........................         4,900,000         6,200,000        12,055,000
    Air/Ground Communications Infrastructure..............         9,750,000        10,541,000         8,750,000
    Air Traffic Control En Route Radar Facilities                  5,400,000         6,600,000         6,600,000
     Improvements.........................................
    Voice Switching and Control System [VSCS].............        15,800,000        11,400,000        11,400,000
    Oceanic Automation System.............................        34,950,000        17,500,000        23,100,000
    Next Generation Very High Frequency Air/Ground                60,000,000        50,000,000        50,000,000
     Communications [NEXCOM]..............................
    System-Wide Information Management....................        50,050,000        58,807,000        55,300,000
    ADS-B NAS Wide Implementation.........................       150,300,000       123,748,000       139,150,000
    Windshear Detection Service...........................         1,000,000  ................  ................
    Collaborative Air Traffic Management Technologies.....         9,000,000        17,700,000        17,700,000
    Time Based Flow Management Portfolio..................        40,450,000        21,150,000        28,150,000
    NextGen Weather Processors............................        45,450,000        24,650,000        28,650,000
    Airborne Collision Avoidance System X [ACASX].........         7,700,000         7,700,000         7,700,000
    Data Communications in Support of NG Air                     294,100,000       113,850,000       118,902,000
     Transportation System................................
    Non-Continental United States [Non-CONUS] Automation..         2,000,000        14,000,000        14,000,000
    Reduced Oceanic Separation............................        24,350,000  ................        10,000,000
    En Route Service Improvements.........................         3,000,000         1,000,000         1,000,000
    Commercial Space Integration..........................         4,500,000         7,000,000         9,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal En Route Programs..........................       982,900,000       689,096,000       765,857,000
 
b. Terminal Programs:
    Airport Surface Detection Equipment--Model X [ASDE-X].  ................  ................  ................
    Terminal Doppler Weather Radar [TDWR]--Provide........         3,800,000         4,500,000         4,500,000
    Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System               86,700,000        66,900,000        66,900,000
     [STARS] (TAMR Phase 1)...............................
    Terminal Automation Modernization/Replacement Program         66,100,000         9,012,000         8,000,000
     (TAMR Phase 3).......................................
    Terminal Automation Program...........................         8,493,000         8,500,000         8,500,000
    Terminal Air Traffic Control Facilities--Replace......        58,118,000        19,200,000        19,200,000
    ATCT/Terminal Radar Approach Control [TRACON]                 91,800,000        95,850,000       105,000,000
     Facilities--Improve..................................
    Terminal Voice Switch Replacement [TVSR]..............        10,000,000         9,574,000        10,000,000
    NAS Facilities OSHA and Environmental Standards               46,700,000        41,900,000        41,900,000
     Compliance...........................................
    Airport Surveillance Radar [ASR-9]....................        11,400,000        12,800,000        12,800,000
    Terminal Digital Radar [ASR-11] Technology Refresh and         5,200,000         1,000,000         1,000,000
     Mobile Airport Surveillance Radar [MASR].............
    Runway Status Lights..................................        12,800,000         2,000,000         2,000,000
    National Airspace System Voice System [NVS]...........        68,750,000        43,150,000        43,150,000
    Integrated Display System [IDS].......................         5,000,000        19,459,000        18,000,000
    Remote Monitoring and Logging System [RMLS]...........         7,400,000        18,100,000        18,100,000
    Mode S Service Life Extension Program [SLEP]..........        20,900,000        15,400,000        15,400,000
    Terminal Flight Data Manager [TFDM]...................        90,350,000       119,250,000       119,250,000
    National Air Space [NAS] Voice Recorder Program [NVRP]         5,000,000        14,000,000        14,000,000
    Integrated Terminal Weather System [ITWS].............         1,000,000         2,100,000         2,100,000
    Performance Based Navigation & Metroplex Portfolio....        20,000,000        20,000,000        20,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Terminal Programs..........................       619,511,000       522,695,000       529,800,000
 
c. Flight Service Programs:
    Aviation Surface Observation System [ASOS]............        10,000,000        10,976,000        10,000,000
    Future Flight Services Program........................        14,039,000        10,100,000        10,100,000
    Alaska Flight Service Facility Modernization [AFSFM]..         2,650,000         2,650,000         2,650,000
 
    Weather Camera Program................................         1,300,000         1,100,000         1,100,000
    Juneau Airport Wind System [JAWS]--Technology Refresh.  ................         1,000,000         1,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Flight Service Programs....................        27,989,000        25,826,000        24,850,000
 
d. Landing and Navigational Aids Program:
    VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range [VOR] with Distance           17,000,000        15,000,000        15,000,000
     Measuring Equipment [DME]............................
    Instrument Landing System [ILS]--Establish............        11,000,000  ................        25,000,000
    Wide Area Augmentation System [WAAS] for GPS..........       110,300,000        96,320,000        96,320,000
    Runway Visual Range [RVR] and Enhanced Low Visibility          4,000,000  ................  ................
     Operations [ELVO]....................................
    Approach Lighting System Improvement Program [ALSIP]..         3,000,000  ................  ................
    Distance Measuring Equipment [DME]....................         3,000,000  ................  ................
    Visual NAVAIDS--Establish/Expand......................         2,000,000  ................  ................
    Instrument Flight Procedures Automation [IFPA]........         8,500,000         1,400,000         1,400,000
    Navigation and Landing Aids--Service Life Extension            3,000,000  ................  ................
     Program [SLEP].......................................
    VASI Replacement--Replace with Precision Approach Path         5,000,000  ................  ................
     Indicator............................................
    Runway Safety Areas--Navigational Mitigation..........         1,600,000         2,000,000         2,000,000
    NAVAIDS Monitoring Equipment..........................         2,000,000         3,000,000         3,000,000
    Legacy Navigation Aids Portfolio......................  ................        42,372,000        31,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Landing and Navigational Aids Programs.....       170,400,000       160,092,000       173,720,000
 
e. Other ATC Facilities Programs:
    Fuel Storage Tank Replacement and Management..........        35,000,000        25,700,000        25,700,000
    Unstaffed Infrastructure Sustainment..................        41,000,000        51,050,000        51,050,000
    Aircraft Related Equipment Program....................        12,500,000        13,000,000        13,000,000
    Airport Cable Loop Systems--Sustained Support.........         8,000,000        10,000,000        10,000,000
    Alaskan Satellite Telecommunications Infrastructure           20,900,000        16,300,000        16,300,000
     [ASTI]...............................................
    Facilities Decommissioning............................        27,000,000         9,000,000         9,000,000
    Electrical Power Systems--Sustain/Support.............       125,000,000       140,834,000       145,700,000
    Energy Management and Compliance [EMC]................         2,400,000         2,400,000         2,400,000
    Child Care Center Sustainment.........................         1,000,000         1,000,000         1,000,000
    FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure.................        30,000,000         6,700,000        40,000,000
    Data Visualization, Analysis and Reporting System              5,500,000         4,500,000         4,500,000
     [DVARS]..............................................
    TDM-to-IP Migration...................................        39,000,000         3,000,000        38,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Other ATC Facilities Programs..............       347,300,000       283,484,000       356,650,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Total Activity 2....................................     2,148,100,000     1,681,193,000     1,850,877,000
 
Activity 3--Non-Air Traffic Control Facilities and
 Equipment:
 
a. Support Equipment:
    Hazardous Materials Management........................        35,300,000        29,800,000        29,800,000
    Aviation Safety Analysis System [ASAS]................        12,000,000        18,899,000        18,700,000
    Logistics Support Systems and Facilities [LSSF].......        12,000,000        12,200,000        12,000,000
    Facility Security Risk Management.....................        20,400,000        18,608,000        19,600,000
    Information Security..................................        25,700,000        16,000,000        18,000,000
    System Approach for Safety Oversight [SASO]...........        25,800,000        25,400,000        25,400,000
    Aviation Safety Knowledge Management Environment               4,000,000         6,000,000         6,000,000
     [ASKME]..............................................
    Aerospace Medical Equipment Needs [AMEN]..............         7,000,000        14,078,000        14,000,000
    System Safety Management Portfolio....................        16,200,000        14,700,000        14,200,000
    National Test Equipment Program.......................         4,000,000         5,000,000         5,000,000
    Mobile Assets Management Program......................         3,600,000         2,216,000         2,200,000
    Aerospace Medicine Safety Information Systems [AMSIS].        14,000,000        16,100,000        16,100,000
    Tower Simulation System [TSS] Technology Refresh......         3,000,000           500,000           500,000
    Logistics Support Systems and Facilities [LSSF].......  ................         7,100,000         7,100,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Support Equipment..........................       178,000,000       186,601,000       188,600,000
 
b. Training, Equipment and Facilities:
    Aeronautical Center Infrastructure Modernization......        14,000,000        14,298,000        14,000,000
    Distance Learning.....................................         1,000,000         1,000,000         1,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Subtotal Training, Equipment and Facilities.........        15,000,000        15,298,000        15,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Total Activity 3....................................       193,000,000       201,899,000       203,600,000
 
Activity 4--Facilities and Equipment Mission Support:
 
a. System Support and Services:
    System Engineering and Development Support............        35,700,000        38,000,000        39,700,000
    Program Support Leases................................        47,000,000        47,000,000        47,000,000
    Logistics and Acquisition Support Services............        11,000,000        11,000,000        12,500,000
    Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center Leases..............        19,700,000        20,200,000        20,200,000
    Transition Engineering Support........................        24,900,000        17,000,000        22,000,000
    Technical Support Services Contract [TSSC]............        28,000,000        23,000,000        28,000,000
    Resource Tracking Program [RTP].......................         6,000,000         6,000,000         6,000,000
    Center for Advanced Aviation System Development               57,000,000        57,000,000        57,000,000
     [CAASD]..............................................
    Aeronautical Information Management Program...........        15,000,000         6,819,000         5,000,000
    Cross Agency NextGen Management.......................         1,000,000         1,000,000         1,000,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Total Activity 4....................................       245,300,000       227,019,000       238,400,000
 
Activity 5--Personnel and Related Expenses:
    Personnel and Related Expenses........................       498,000,000       489,572,000       512,823,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
      Sub-Total All Activities............................     3,250,000,000     2,766,572,000     3,000,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                       Fiscal year--
                                                           ------------------------------------     This bill
                                                              2018 enacted      2019 estimate
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Safety:
    Fire Research & Safety................................        $7,200,000        $4,867,000        $7,200,000
    Propulsion & Fuel Systems.............................         2,100,000           555,000         2,100,000
    Advanced Materials/Structural Safety..................        10,500,000         2,300,000        10,500,000
    Aircraft Icing/Digital System Safety/Cyber Security...         9,253,000         7,684,000         9,253,000
    Continued Air Worthiness..............................        11,269,000         4,969,000        11,269,000
    Aircraft Catastrophic Failure Prevention Research.....         1,570,000  ................         1,570,000
    Flightdeck/Maintenance/System Integration Human                7,305,000         5,052,000         7,305,000
     Factors..............................................
    Safety System Management/Terminal Area Safety.........         5,500,000           799,000         5,500,000
    Air Traffic Control/Technical Operations Human Factors         5,800,000         1,436,000         5,800,000
    Aeromedical Research..................................         9,080,000         3,875,000         9,080,000
    Weather Research......................................        15,476,000         6,580,000        15,476,000
    Unmanned Aircraft Systems Research....................        24,035,000         3,318,000        24,035,000
    NextGen--Alternative Fuels for General Aviation.......         7,000,000  ................         7,000,000
    Commercial Space Transportation Safety................         1,872,000         2,500,000         2,500,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
        Total Safety......................................       117,960,000        43,935,000       118,588,000
                                                           =====================================================
 
Economic Competitiveness:
    NextGen--Wake Turbulence..............................         6,831,000         3,519,000         6,831,000
    NextGen--Air Ground Integration.......................         6,757,000         1,336,000         6,757,000
    NextGen--Weather Technology in the Cockpit............         3,644,000         1,525,000         3,644,000
    NextGen--Flight Data Exchange.........................  ................         1,035,000         1,035,000
    NextGen--Information Security.........................         1,000,000         1,232,000         1,232,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
        Total Economic Competitiveness....................        18,232,000         8,647,000        19,499,000
                                                           =====================================================
Environmental Sustainability:
    Environment & Energy..................................        18,013,000        11,588,000        18,013,000
    NextGen Environmental Research--Aircraft Technologies,        29,174,000         7,578,000        29,174,000
     Fuels and Metrics....................................
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
        Total Environmental Sustainability................        47,187,000        19,166,000        47,187,000
                                                           =====================================================
Mission Support:
    System Planning and Resource Management...............         2,135,000         1,480,000         2,135,000
    WJHTC Lab Facilities..................................         3,412,000         1,178,000         3,591,000
                                                           -----------------------------------------------------
        Total Mission Support.............................         5,547,000         2,658,000         5,726,000
                                                           =====================================================
            Total.........................................       188,926,000        74,406,000       191,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      DIVISION E--COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES
                    TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
                ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Public Works............................................         117,500
Economic Adjustment Assistance..........................          37,000
Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms...................          13,000
Regional Innovation Program.............................          25,000
Partnership Planning....................................          33,000
Technical Assistance....................................           9,500
Research and Evaluation.................................           1,500
Assistance to Coal Communities..........................          30,000
                                                         ---------------
      Total.............................................         266,500
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (NOAA)
       NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navigation, Observations and Positioning:
    Navigation, Observations and Positioning...........          155,300
    Hydrographic Survey Priorities/Contracts...........           32,000
    Integrated Ocean Observing System--Regional                   37,000
     Observations......................................
                                                        ----------------
      Total, Navigation, Observations and Positioning..          224,300
                                                        ================
Coastal Science and Assessment:
    Coastal Science, Assessment, Response and                     77,500
     Restoration.......................................
    Competitive External Research......................           18,000
                                                        ----------------
      Total, Coastal Science and Assessment............           95,500
                                                        ================
Ocean and Coastal Management and Services:
    Coastal Zone Management and Services...............           43,500
    Coastal Management Grants..........................          110,000
    Coral Reef Program.................................           28,600
    National Estuarine Research Reserve System.........           27,500
    National Marine Sanctuaries........................           54,500
                                                        ----------------
      Total, Ocean and Coastal Management and Services.          264,100
                                                        ================
      GRAND TOTAL NOS..................................          583,900
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    NOAA, NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND
                               FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Protected Resources Science and Management:
    Marine Mammals, Sea Turtles, and Other Species....           125,719
    Species Recovery Grants...........................             8,000
    Atlantic Salmon...................................             6,500
    Pacific Salmon....................................            63,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Protected Resources Science and                     203,219
       Management.....................................
                                                       =================
Fisheries Science and Management:
    Fisheries and Ecosystem Science Programs and                 148,427
     Services.........................................
    Fisheries Data Collections, Surveys and                      170,909
     Assessments......................................
    Observers and Training............................            53,955
    Fisheries Management Programs and Services........           121,116
    Aquaculture.......................................            15,000
    Salmon Management Activities......................            37,543
    Regional Councils and Fisheries Commissions.......            40,175
    Interjurisdictional Fisheries Grants..............             3,365
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Fisheries Science and Management.........           590,490
                                                       =================
Enforcement...........................................            69,796
                                                       =================
 
Habitat Conservation and Restoration..................            61,384
                                                       =================
      GRAND TOTAL NMFS................................           924,889
------------------------------------------------------------------------
     NOAA, OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH OPERATIONS, RESEARCH AND
                               FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Climate Research:
    Laboratories and Cooperative Institutes..........            61,000
    Regional Climate Data and Information............            39,000
    Climate Competitive Research.....................            60,000
                                                      ------------------
      Total, Climate Research........................           160,000
                                                      ==================
Weather and Air Chemistry Research Programs:
    Laboratories and Cooperative Institutes..........            75,000
    U.S. Weather Research Program....................            18,000
    Tornado Severe Storm Research/Phased Array Radar.            12,622
    Joint Technology Transfer Initiative.............            10,000
                                                      ------------------
      Total, Weather and Air Chemistry Research......           115,622
                                                      ==================
Ocean, Coastal and Great Lakes Research:
    Laboratories and Cooperative Institutes..........            40,000
    National Sea Grant College Program...............            71,000
    Marine Aquaculture Research......................            12,000
    Sustained Ocean Observations and Monitoring......            43,500
    Integrated Ocean Acidification...................            11,000
    Ocean Exploration................................            35,000
    National Oceanographic Partnership Program [NOPP]             8,000
                                                      ------------------
      Total, Ocean, Coastal and Great Lakes Research.           220,500
                                                      ==================
High Performance Computing Initiatives...............            12,134
                                                      ==================
      GRAND TOTAL OAR................................           508,256
------------------------------------------------------------------------
   NOAA, NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Observations..........................................           224,363
Central Processing....................................            97,890
Analyze, Forecast, and Support........................           503,938
Dissemination.........................................            50,028
Science and Technology Integration....................           143,000
                                                       -----------------
      GRAND TOTAL NWS.................................         1,019,219
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NOAA, NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITE, DATA AND INFORMATION SERVICE
                  OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Environmental Satellite Observing Systems:
    Office of Satellite and Product Operations........           146,924
    Product Development, Readiness & Application......            31,000
    Commercial Remote Sensing Licensing & Enforcement.             1,800
    Office of Space Commerce..........................             1,800
    Group on Earth Observations [GEO].................               500
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Environmental Satellite Observing Systems           182,024
                                                       =================
National Centers for Environmental Information........            60,642
                                                       -----------------
      GRAND TOTAL NESDIS..............................           242,666
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       NOAA, MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Corporate Services:
    Executive Leadership..............................            27,957
    Mission Services and Management...................           148,000
    IT Security.......................................            10,050
    Payment to DOC Working Capital Fund...............            55,249
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Corporate Services.......................           241,256
                                                       =================
NOAA Education Program................................            28,000
                                                       =================
      GRAND TOTAL, MISSION SUPPORT....................           269,256
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOAA, OFFICE OF MARINE AND AVIATION OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Marine Operations and Maintenance.....................           190,670
Aviation Operations...................................            35,750
                                                       -----------------
      GRAND TOTAL, OMAO...............................           226,420
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             NOAA, PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
National Ocean Service:
    National Estuarine Research Reserve Construction..             1,900
    Marine Sanctuaries Construction/Acquisition.......             2,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total National Ocean Service--PAC...............             3,900
                                                       =================
Ocean and Atmospheric Research:
    Research Super Computing..........................            41,000
                                                       =================
National Weather Service:
    Observations......................................            21,129
    Central Processing................................            66,761
    Dissemination.....................................            34,619
    WFO Construction..................................            19,650
                                                       -----------------
      Total, National Weather Service--PAC............           142,159
                                                       =================
National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information
 Services:
    Geostationary Systems [GOES-R]....................           408,380
    Polar Weather Satellites..........................           927,991
    Cooperative Data and Rescue Services [CDARS]......            37,900
    Space Weather Follow-on...........................            12,000
    COSMIC-2..........................................             5,892
    Satellite Ground Services.........................            58,000
    System Architecture and Advanced Planning.........             4,929
    Projects, Planning, and Analysis..................            40,000
    Satellite CDA Facility............................             2,450
    Commercial Weather Data Pilot.....................             3,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total, NESDIS--PAC..............................         1,500,542
                                                       =================
Mission Support:
    NOAA Construction.................................            31,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Mission Support--PAC.....................            31,000
                                                       =================
Office of Marine and Aviation Operations:
    Fleet Capital Improvements & Tech Infusion........            25,878
    New Vessel Construction...........................            75,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total, OMAO--PAC................................           100,878
                                                       =================
Unobligated balances from prior years.................           -13,000
                                                       -----------------
      GRAND TOTAL, PAC................................         1,806,479
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           TITLE III--SCIENCE
          NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA)
                                 SCIENCE
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earth Science.........................................        1,931,000
Planetary Science.....................................        2,201,500
Astrophysics..........................................        1,243,200
James Webb Space Telescope............................          304,600
Heliophysics..........................................          720,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Science..................................        6,400,300
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        NASA, STEM OPPORTUNITIES
                        [In thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
NASA Space Grant......................................            44,000
Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research             21,000
 [EPSCOR].............................................
Minority University Research and Education Project....            33,000
STEM Education and Accountability Projects............            12,000
                                                       -----------------
      TOTAL...........................................           110,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
                      TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF STATE
                            EMBASSY SECURITY
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program/Activity                         This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Security Protection...........................       3,817,899
Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance.........       1,916,404
                                                         ---------------
    Total...............................................       5,734,303
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
                      TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF STATE
               EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program/Activity                         This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Academic Programs:
    Fulbright Program...................................         242,400
    Global Academic Exchanges...........................          63,550
 
    Special Academic Exchanges..........................          22,600
        of which, Benjamin Gilman International                   15,700
         Scholarship Program............................
        of which, South Pacific Exchanges...............             375
        of which, Fulbright University Vietnam..........           5,000
                                                         ---------------
      Total, Academic Programs..........................         328,550
                                                         ===============
Professional and Cultural Exchanges:
    International Visitor Program.......................         110,000
    Citizen Exchange Program............................         112,360
        of which, Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange.....           4,125
    Special Professional and Cultural Exchanges.........           5,575
        of which, Ngwang Choephel Fellows (Tibet).......             575
        of which, J. Christopher Stevens Virtual                   5,000
         Exchange.......................................
                                                         ---------------
      Total, Professional and Cultural Exchanges........         227,935
                                                         ===============
Special Initiatives:
    Young Leaders Initiatives...........................          35,000
        of which, Young African Leaders Initiative......          20,000
        of which, Young Southeast Asian Leaders                    8,000
         Initiative.....................................
        of which, Young Leaders in the Americas                    7,000
         Initiative.....................................
    Countering State Disinformation and Pressure........          15,000
                                                         ---------------
      Total, Special Initiatives........................          50,000
                                                         ===============
Program and Performance.................................           8,600
Exchanges Support.......................................          75,500
                                                         ---------------
      Total, Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs.         690,585
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
                TITLE I--BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
                 INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING OPERATIONS -
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program/Activity                         This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal Entities:
    Voice of America....................................         247,468
    Office of Cuba Broadcasting.........................          29,209
    International Broadcasting Bureau:..................          59,052
        of which, Internet Freedom......................          13,800
    Technology, Services and Innovation.................         183,437
                                                         ---------------
      Subtotal, Federal Entities........................         519,166
 
Independent Grantee Organizations:
    Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.....................         127,950
    Radio Free Asia.....................................          44,847
    Middle East Broadcasting Networks...................         112,523
                                                         ---------------
      Subtotal, Independent Grantee Organizations.......         285,320
                                                         ===============
        Total, International Broadcasting Operations....         804,486
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
                TITLE III--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
                         GLOBAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Program/Activity                         This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maternal and Child Health.............................           829,500
    of which, Maternal and Neonatal Tetanus...........             1,000
    of which, Polio...................................            51,500
    of which, The GAVI Alliance.......................           290,000
Nutrition (USAID).....................................           135,000
    of which, Iodine Deficiency Disorder..............             2,500
    of which, Micronutrients..........................            33,000
        Vitamin A (non-add)...........................            22,500
Vulnerable Children...................................            25,000
    of which, Blind Children..........................             3,500
HIV/AIDS (USAID)......................................           330,000
    of which, Microbicides............................            45,000
HIV/AIDS (Department of State)........................         5,720,000
    of which, Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Malaria           1,350,000
     and Tuberculosis.................................
    of which, Joint U.N. Programme on HIV/AIDS                    45,000
     [UNAIDS].........................................
Family Planning and Reproductive Health...............           544,000
Other Infectious Diseases (USAID).....................         1,208,500
    of which, Global Health Security..................            72,550
    of which, Malaria.................................           755,000
    of which, Tuberculosis............................           275,000
        Global TB Drug Facility (non-add).............            15,000
    of which, Neglected Tropical Diseases/Other Public           105,950
     Health Threats...................................
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Global Health Programs...................         8,792,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
              TITLE IV--INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
     NONPROLIFERATION, ANTI-TERRORISM, DEMINING AND RELATED PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Program/Country                         This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nonproliferation Programs:
    Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund.............            30,000
    Export Control and Related Border Security........            60,000
    Global Threat Reduction...........................            70,000
 
    International Atomic Energy Agency Voluntary                  94,800
     Contribution.....................................
    Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.............            29,000
    Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Special                  2,500
     Contributions....................................
    Weapons of Mass Destruction Program...............             6,000
                                                       -----------------
      Subtotal, Nonproliferation Programs.............           292,300
 
Anti-Terrorism Programs:
    Anti-Terrorism Assistance Programs................           182,000
        of which, Airport Security....................            20,000
    Counterterrorism Financing........................            12,500
    Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund................            83,863
    Terrorist Interdiction Program....................            36,000
    Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership (non-               18,446
     add).............................................
      Subtotal, Anti-Terrorism Programs...............           314,363
 
Conventional Weapons Destruction......................           204,000
    of which, Humanitarian Demining/Unexploded                   170,000
     Ordnance Clearance...............................
        Laos (non-add)................................            40,000
        Vietnam (non-add).............................            15,000
Section 7069(b) Relief and Recovery Fund..............            50,000
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism,                   860,663
       Demining and Related Programs..................
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
              TITLE IV--INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
                         PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country/Program                         This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Africa:
    Central African Republic..........................             8,000
    Democratic Republic of the Congo..................             5,000
    Liberia...........................................             1,000
    Somalia...........................................           222,500
    South Sudan.......................................            25,000
    Africa Regional...................................            34,325
        of which, Partnership for Regional East Africa            10,000
         Counterterrorism.............................
        of which, Africa Conflict Stabilization and                8,400
         Border Security..............................
        of which, Africa Military Education Program...             3,000
        of which, Africa Maritime Security Initiative.             2,000
        of which, Africa Regional Counterterrorism....            10,000
        of which, Program Management..................               925
                                                       -----------------
      Subtotal, Africa................................           295,825
 
Near East:
    Multinational Force and Observers.................            31,000
                                                       -----------------
      Subtotal, Near East.............................            31,000
 
Political-Military Affairs:
    Defense Reform....................................            10,500
        of which, section 7049(a)(6) Security Force                7,500
         Professionalization..........................
    Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership.........            24,100
    Global Peacekeeping Operations Initiative.........            61,000
    Section 7069(b) Relief and Recovery Fund..........            55,000
                                                       -----------------
      Subtotal, Political-Military Affairs............           150,600
                                                       -----------------
      Total, Peacekeeping Operations..................           477,425
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       DIVISION F--DEPARTMENT OF STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND 
                            RELATED PROGRAMS
                    TITLE V--MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE
                INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS
               [Budget authority in thousands of dollars]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Program                             This bill
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change/U.N.                    10,000
 Framework Convention on Climate Change...............
International Chemicals and Toxins Programs...........             3,175
International Civil Aviation Organization.............               800
International Conservation Programs...................             7,000
International Development Law Organization............               400
International Maritime Organization...................               325
Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund...................            32,000
Organization of American States Development Assistance               500
 Programs.............................................
Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and                50
 Armed Robbery Against Ships in Asia..................
U.N. Capital Development Fund.........................             1,500
U.N. Children's Fund..................................           137,500
    of which, combating female genital mutilation                  5,000
     programs.........................................
U.N. Democracy Fund...................................             3,500
U.N. Development Program..............................            80,000
U.N. Environment Program..............................             7,500
U.N. Haiti Cholera Multi-Partner Trust Fund...........             1,750
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights...............            10,000
    of which, Honduras................................             1,000
    of which, Colombia................................             1,000
U.N. Human Settlements Program........................               700
U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian                   2,500
 Affairs..............................................
U.N. Population Fund..................................            37,500
U.N. Special Representative of the Secretary-General               1,750
 for Sexual Violence in Conflict......................
U.N. Trust Fund to End Violence Against Women.........             1,000
U.N. Voluntary Fund for Technical Cooperation in the               1,150
 Field of Human Rights................................
U.N. Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture............             6,550
U.N. Women............................................            10,000
World Meteorological Organization.....................             1,000
World Trade Organization Technical Assistance.........               600
                                                       -----------------
      Total, International Organizations and Programs.           358,750
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Madam Speaker, today I rise in opposition to H.R. 21. After months of 
good-faith negotiations to resolve the differences between the House, 
the Senate, and the White House, the new Democrat leadership has chosen 
to introduce this package that fails to secure our border.
  The President has said that he will not sign it. The Senate has said 
they will not consider it. This plan not only ignores one of the main 
responsibilities of the Congress, which is to protect the American 
people, it ignores the will of this Chamber by eliminating House 
Members' involvement in the appropriations process.
  All Members of the House, both Democrats and Republicans, have 
priorities and concerns that are not addressed in this bill. Our 
constituents are not well-served by us simply rubber-stamping a Senate 
product that has no chance of becoming a law.
  By accepting this bill, we are throwing away important House 
priorities, such as resources to help Federal law enforcement better 
investigate and prosecute groups such as: terrorists, drug traffickers, 
human traffickers, violent criminals, and criminal aliens.
  It also ignores more than $300 million in funding for embassy 
security at a time when security threats overseas remain high, and 
countless facilities are in need of important upgrades.
  The bill also strips vital protections for the rural poor that House 
Members on both sides of the aisle have been fighting to secure for 
years.
  These are just a few examples, Madam Speaker. All of us in this 
Chamber were elected to represent the best interests of our 
constituents. This bill does not meet those standards.
  If my colleagues on the other side of the aisle truly care about the 
needs of their constituents, Federal employees, and keeping the 
government operating, they shouldn't be wasting time on bills that will 
not be enacted.
  Instead, we should come together to find a solution that represents 
the will of both the House and the Senate. It is time to end the 
political gamesmanship and get together on a bill that will reopen the 
government and fund border security.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill 
before us today, and I reserve the balance of my time.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. Serrano), the chairman-designate of the Commerce, 
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.


Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from New York 
(Mrs. Lowey) and congratulate her on her chairmanship. I also 
congratulate Ms. Granger on her ranking membership.
  As a top Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee, I would like to discuss what is happening right 
now at the Department of Justice, the Department of Commerce, NASA, and 
the other agencies under my subcommittee's jurisdiction as a result of 
the Trump shutdown.
  More than 95,000 employees at the Department of Justice, including 
the FBI, DEA, ATF, Federal Bureau of Prisons, and United States 
Marshals Service are currently working without pay.
  More than 96 percent of NASA employees are now not working, 
imperiling scientific achievement. More than 86 percent of the 
Department of Commerce is furloughed without pay, including employees 
at key economic development agencies, like the Economic Development 
Administration, and the Minority Business Development Agency.
  Law enforcement training programs have been stopped. The Department 
of Justice civil litigation efforts against bad actors are severely 
limited. Payments to crime victims are not occurring.
  These are real-life consequences to the President's temper tantrum. 
This is basic governance that the Republican Party seems to be 
incapable of doing. Instead of working on a compromise, they sent 
everybody home for the holidays.
  Democrats are doing the work that the President and his party 
couldn't. We need the government reopened; these bills provide a clear 
path in that regard. And in that direction, the Commerce, Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee portion of this bill 
provides important investments to the Census Bureau, the Justice 
Department, NASA, and the National Science Foundation, among others.
  It also rejects some of the President's worst and most partisan 
policy proposals, including efforts to undermine climate research, 
eliminate economic development programs, and eliminate the Legal 
Services Corporation.
  It also gives the Senate no excuses. The Commerce, Justice, Science, 
and Related Agencies Subcommittee's portion of this bill was approved 
by the Senate Appropriations Committee by a bipartisan vote of 30-1. It 
would be great to get it approved by the Senate. If Majority Leader 
McConnell were to bring it up for a vote, it would pass, we feel, very 
easily.
  We are all elected in order to solve the pressing problems of our 
Nation.
                              {time}  1930
  Right now, the President doesn't seem interested in doing the same. 
But with this package, we are asking Senate Republicans: Will you join 
us in helping the American people?
  Lastly, so much of this is tied up against the wall. Many people 
discuss the actual, physical structure of the wall. I speak about 
something else. This country, of all countries in the world, should 
never build a wall. This country that has a statue in New York Harbor 
saying ``Bring me your tired, your poor'' should not be building a wall 
to keep some other people out. It is just not who we are. It is not who 
we should become.
  I think that the President should realize that this is a losing 
battle, because he is not going to get the money he wants to build that 
wall.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I rise to oppose the fiscal year 2019 
appropriations package that is before us tonight, as I believe it fails 
to reflect the priorities of elected Members of this body here in the 
House of Representatives.
  The House agriculture appropriations bill, which I chaired as the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Subcommittee chairman, was bipartisan. I worked with 
my colleague, the Democratic ranking member, my good friend from 
Georgia, Sanford Bishop, on the bill.
  But, unfortunately, the bill in front of us tonight is basically, as 
some would say, a nothing burger. It is largely missing any substance. 
Let me give you some examples of what I am talking about.
  The House bill that we negotiated contained $125 million more than 
the Senate bill for a broadband pilot program. That is a program that 
is widely popular among rural America.
  The House bill provides $149 million more for the Food and Drug 
Administration.
  The House bill protected our children by excluding chicken from China 
in our children's school meals.
  The House bill reflected my work with Representative Clyburn of South 
Carolina to secure set-aside funds for persistent poverty, as it 
continues in rural areas.
  But tonight's package does not include these priorities. Also, they 
don't protect the border, which is one of the most basic duties of the 
Federal Government. Certainly, one of the basic duties that the 
President must make sure that he does is to protect our Nation against 
foreign enemies.
  Among the illegal immigrants who make their way across the southern 
border are gang members. There are human traffickers; there are child 
smugglers; and there are drug dealers. By stopping their entry at the 
border, it prevents them from committing crimes in the United States.
  Instead of catering to voters who don't even want to have a border, I 
believe the House Democrats should vote ``no'' on this bill, and the 
Democrat majority should negotiate an end to the government shutdown 
and simply provide the funding requested by the President of the United 
States.
  Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this 
appropriations bill tonight, and I insist on a bill that includes the 
House priorities.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, before I yield to my friend, the gentleman 
from North Carolina, I would like to address a comment that my friend, 
Mr. Aderholt, made. The bill that passed through the gentleman's 
committee also included language that would make it easier than it is 
today for youngsters to use e-cigarettes. Perhaps when we get back to 
it, we could address that.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. Price), who is the chairman-designate of the Transportation, 
Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the 
legislation to reopen the government and end this third Trump shutdown.
  For the last 2 weeks, President Trump has held America hostage to 
fulfill his demagogic campaign promise to build a border wall, a wall 
that has come to symbolize extreme and inhumane immigration policies 
that are simply tearing our communities apart.
  This is more than just a political fight. The Trump shutdown has 
closed Federal agencies and suspended essential programs that millions 
of Americans rely upon. It has created uncertainty for families, 
businesses, and communities in each of our districts.
  To those Federal employees affected by this unnecessary shutdown, 
know this: the President and his privileged cronies may not care about 
how you and your families pay your bills, but this new Democratic 
majority certainly does care.
  As the incoming chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, I know this uncertainty 
has severe consequences.
  Already, vital funding for States and municipalities to upgrade 
transit, rail, and aviation facilities is being put on hold.
  The National Transportation Safety Board has ceased major accident 
investigations.
  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is no longer 
investigating or reviewing information about motor vehicle 
manufacturing defects that could put lives at risk.
  Disaster recovery programs at FEMA and other agencies have been 
slowed due to the lapse in funding. Survivors of these disasters in 
North Carolina and other States are still recovering from devastating 
hurricanes, wildfires, and typhoons, and they simply cannot afford this 
delay and this uncertainty.
  New hiring and training for air traffic controllers has ceased, 
exacerbating an ongoing staffing shortage.
  If the shutdown continues much longer, housing assistance for 
millions of low-income families, veterans, seniors, and the disabled 
will be jeopardized.
  The list, Madam Speaker, goes on and on.
  President Trump and the Republicans may have gotten us into this 
mess, but Democrats are ready to clean it up on day one, namely, right 
this minute. The funding package before us consists of appropriations 
bills that previously passed the Senate on a bipartisan basis. It 
reflects key Democratic and Republican priorities and rejects partisan 
policy riders.
  In a few minutes, separate legislation will provide short-term 
funding for the Department of Homeland Security. That will give us more 
time to negotiate and find a solution on border security and 
immigration policy.
  My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have been quoted calling 
this a stunt or a nonstarter. Madam Speaker, how is legislation that 
passed the Senate with 92 votes a stunt? How can bills the Trump 
administration itself praised in its official Statement of 
Administrative Policy just a few months ago be a nonstarter?
  Enough is enough. President Trump may see this as a reality show game 
of chicken, but this shutdown is for real, and it is doing real damage. 
Let's do the right thing for the American people. Let's reopen the 
government without further delay.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan, 
commonsense legislation to finally end the Trump shutdown.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. Rogers).
  Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member for 
yielding.
  Madam Speaker, tonight, there will be a smoke-and-mirrors vote on 
this House floor. Democrats want to kick the can down the road and put 
American security on the back burner while they gear up their 
obstructionist agenda.
  It used to be that Members of Congress could put partisanship aside 
at least on national security issues. I know this firsthand as a member 
of both the Armed Services Committee and the Homeland Security 
Committee, where we have done this on a regular basis.
  But, today, the Democrats and the Speaker refuse to even negotiate 
funding a deal to deal with a critical national security issue. 
Unfortunately, it looks like we are in for a Democrat agenda influenced 
by the far left echo chamber that promotes open borders and illegal 
immigration.
  Not too long ago, then-Senator Barack Obama spoke in support of 
securing the southern border and the need to deter illegal immigration. 
The bill he supported authorized the construction of a physical barrier 
along the southern border that would prevent illegal entry into the 
United States. It passed the Senate with 80 votes that included Senator 
Barack Obama, Senator Biden, Senator Clinton, and Senator Schumer.
  What changed? Since when did securing our border become 
controversial? The election of Donald Trump.
  Democrats seem willing to ignore security vulnerabilities along our 
border on their quest to win back the White House in 2020. Their plan 
is to block President Trump's priorities, even those they used to 
support, and then act like Republicans are the reason they can't get 
things done.
  Today's funding bill stands no chance in the Senate or with President 
Trump. I challenge my Democrat colleagues to get something good done 
for the American people rather than engaging in the political 
grandstanding that this bill signifies.
  I hope Speaker Pelosi won't let the activist left hold American 
security hostage. Securing our border is not only the right thing to 
do, but it is what the American people sent us here to do.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), who is the chair-designate of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this bill to reopen 
the government. As the Trump shutdown ends its 13th day, we are seeing 
the damage it is inflicting on our country.
  Our national parks, America's crown jewels, are under threat from 
vandalism and unmanaged visitation. The Interior Department is charged 
with preserving our public lands for all Americans to enjoy. But the 
current lack of supervision in our parks is damaging, and the very 
resources that the government is supposed to protect are at risk.
  Just this past weekend, it was reported that Yosemite National Park 
became overwhelmed by garbage and other human waste piling up along the 
roads. Leaving these parks accessible without adequate National Park 
Service staffing puts the public at risk.
  On Christmas Eve at Big Bend National Park, a man broke his leg while 
hiking. Because of the shutdown, emergency services were not available. 
Thankfully, Good Samaritans found the man and carried him down the 
trail. Luckily, they met one of the few park rangers deemed essential 
who was continuing to work without pay during the shutdown. The ranger 
carried the man on his back for 2 hours to safety.
  Now, this story had a positive ending, but it could have been tragic. 
This is just one story.
  The shutdown is creating uncertainty for our families, businesses, 
and communities. More than 800,000 Federal employees aren't getting 
paid. Vital services are being disrupted. Some small businesses with 
government contracts are being forced to consider laying off their 
employees. The ripple effect from this shutdown is damaging our 
economy.
  Then there is the vital work of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
It
has furloughed more than 13,000 employees, halting inspections at 
drinking water systems and hazardous waste management and chemical 
facilities. This is just unacceptable to America's public health. It 
leaves our American people in jeopardy.
  The Trump shutdown is particularly threatening to the health and 
safety of our Native American brothers and sisters. Once again, we have 
failed to meet our commitments to Tribal nations as the delay in 
government funding continues. Everyday, basic services like health 
clinics, schools, and food assistance for our seniors are being put at 
risk for nearly 1.9 million Americans throughout Indian Country.
  Federally employed first responders are putting their lives on the 
line without pay. It is unconscionable to put people's lives at risk.
  We must reopen this government. Responsibly funding the government is 
one of Congress' most important duties. The Republicans failed to meet 
this obligation, and they have allowed President Trump to peddle chaos. 
Democrats are ready to end the Trump shutdown.
  This bill is nearly identical to the legislation that has already 
received overwhelming bipartisan support in the Senate. It reflects the 
priorities of the American people by rejecting President Trump's 
proposed budget cuts and program eliminations, including the poison 
pill riders.
  The second bill we will consider today, the homeland security bill, 
will create space for negotiation on immigration policy and border 
security, something Democrats do support strongly.
  After the House passes these bills, the Senate will have a choice: 
pass the bills they previously voted for and end the shutdown, or 
reject them and leave the government closed.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Graves).
  Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from 
Texas for yielding.
  Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill that is before us 
tonight. Unfortunately, this 116th Congress has begun under the cloud 
of a government shutdown. The prosperity and security of our Nation has 
taken a backseat to the new Democrat majority's political agenda.
  While President Trump has asked for modest and reasonable funding to 
secure our border, Democrats have blocked this deal, one that would 
have fully funded the government several weeks ago, even before 
Christmas. The President's request was normal, and it was necessary. 
But what is really not necessary is the level of the anti-Trump 
hysteria that has come from the left.
  The first order of business in this new Congress should be to secure 
the border and, yes, to open the government. The President is willing 
to strike a deal, but he just needs a few Democrats to join him at the 
table and put our country before the new Democrat majority's politics.
  Sadly, the bill on the floor today does nothing to secure our border, 
nor does it strengthen our Nation's security. The bill before us is 
nothing more than just a political stunt.
  If you still don't believe me, I will just point out this bill does 
not include any of the bipartisan product that my committee put 
together last year with the help of Congressman  Mike Quigley on the 
Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, 
which included more than 100 pages of bipartisan product that we worked 
on together. None of these reforms were included. It also included the 
Fund for America's Kids and Grandkids, which is a revolutionary idea to 
save money for future generations.
                              {time}  1945
  But just hours ago, in her acceptance speech, the Speaker referred to 
the children of this great country and securing their futures. So why 
doesn't this bill, the one that is before us tonight, include anything 
for America's kids and grandkids?
  Furthermore, this bill is nothing more than a Senate bill. The 
Speaker of the House is supposed to fight for the House position and 
not just be a floor leader for the Senate majority.
  I urge my friends on the other side of the aisle to put politics 
aside. Let's come to the table. Let's get this done. Working together, 
we can secure the border; we can protect the citizens of this country; 
and yes, we can reopen this government. The American people are 
counting on us. This is what they elected us to do here today.
  Madam Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on this bill.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, before I yield to my next speaker, I just 
want to say to the gentleman from Georgia that I strongly believe we 
have a responsibility to keep the government open, so it is really 
unfortunate that the President has taken a strong position in closing 
the government down. I hope we can continue our discussions and open 
the government for the American people.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Bishop), the chairman-designate of the Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding.
  Madam Speaker, we are now in the 13th day of a partial government 
shutdown. Vital government services that the public relies on have 
slowed or stopped altogether. Specifically, the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture has stopped issuing loans for rural development and grants 
for housing and community facilities. New grant payments for 
agriculture research cannot be made. Across the Nation, Farm Service 
Agency county offices closed on December 28. Furthermore, farmers 
applying for relief from retaliatory tariffs are in limbo, waiting for 
the shutdown to end.
  The bill before us today is a serious effort to end this needless 
shutdown and get the government back to work for the American people.
  The agriculture section is virtually identical to legislation that 
the Senate passed last August by a vote of 92-6. This impressive, 
bipartisan vote is the result of the Senate agreeing to work 
constructively to develop their bills. This bill is not perfect--no 
bill ever is--but, again, this is a serious bill that will get the 
government working again for the American people.
  Not only are we in the middle of a needless shutdown, but we are 
already 4 months into fiscal year 2019. Federal agencies and 
departments deserve certainty and stability. As we begin a new 
Congress, I hope we can renew our commitment to responsibly fund the 
government.
  This bill provides $3.8 billion for rural development. These much-
needed resources will help communities that face broadband, housing, 
water and wastewater, and healthcare challenges. The legislation 
provides an additional $425 million for rural broadband expansion, 
continuing our commitment to bridge the digital divide.
  It responsibly funds the McGovern-Dole and Food for Peace programs 
that provide essential food to help keep children in school and help 
feed hungry people abroad.
  It provides $2.7 billion in agricultural research, which is an 
increase of $114 million above the FY 2018 enacted level.
  It funds the Farm Service Agency at $1.6 million, and it funds the 
Natural Resources Conservation Service at $879.1 million.
  The bill provides $73.2 billion in mandatory funding for the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which will soon begin to run 
out of funding if action is not taken soon. Last year, SNAP helped more 
than 42 million people, and it is widely considered an efficient and 
successful safety net that offers desperately needed support to those 
in need.
  Finally, the Food and Drug Administration is funded at $2.97 billion, 
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is funded at the requested 
level of $281.5 million.
  Farmers, ranchers, and producers go to work every morning. So should 
their government. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx).
  Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague from 
Texas for yielding.
  Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 21, the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019. This bill
would allow taxpayers to fund abortions in foreign countries.
  H.R. 21 would repeal President Donald Trump's Protecting Life and 
Global Health Assistance Policy. This important policy, formally known 
as the Mexico City policy, protects American taxpayers and prohibits 
U.S. international assistance from going to foreign NGOs that promote 
or perform abortions.
  It is critical that America's foreign policy reflect the values of 
the American people. A 2017 Marist Poll clearly revealed that an 
overwhelming majority of Americans oppose using their hard-earned tax 
dollars to support abortions in other countries. American taxpayers 
should not be expected to pay for something they so strongly oppose.
  The Protecting Life and Global Health Assistance Policy is not anti-
global health nor is it anti-family planning. It does not reduce 
funding available for international health assistance and leaves the 
choice up to the individual NGOs of whether or not they wish to be 
eligible for Federal grant money.
  Abortion should never be considered a necessary part of economic 
growth, and organizations that believe it is should not be the type of 
organizations that the United States partners with.
  Abortion is wrong. We do not allow taxpayer money to be spent on 
abortions within the United States, and we certainly should not fund it 
in other countries.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Quigley), the distinguished chairman-designate of the 
Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee.


Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I am reminding myself, after listening to 
my colleagues, of how we really got here.
  Yes, this is a Senate bill. The Senate had a bicameral, bipartisan 
approach to this. They were told they could go home for a reason. 
Apparently, the President saw something he didn't like on TV.
  So here we are. And what do we have to show for it?
  More than 800,000 Federal employees are left wondering when their 
next paycheck is going to arrive, forced to choose between paying their 
mortgage or their child's daycare; financial markets and businesses are 
rattled by a President who is willing to throw the economy into chaos 
over his own pride; and American families are deprived of vital 
government services they rely on.
  As the chairman-designate of the Financial Services and General 
Government Subcommittee on Appropriations, I have seen firsthand how 
this shutdown is impacting communities around the country. For example, 
the doors to the Small Business Administration are shut. This means a 
complete halt to the processing of Federal loan assistance applications 
for small businesses, which typically amount to $1 billion per month.
  We have more than 300 million small businesses in our communities, 
thousands of which apply every month for Federal loan assistance, and 
we are failing them. We talk about supporting job creation and ensuring 
small businesses can grow, but when a business owner cannot get a loan 
approved, that is a broken promise.
  At the IRS, tens of thousands of employees who are supposed to be 
ready to answer taxpayers' questions and to process tax returns are, 
instead, furloughed, leaving the phones to continue ringing unanswered 
as we move into the 2018 filing season.
  The Securities and Exchange Commission, the agency responsible for 
policing Wall Street, has furloughed 94 percent of its staff. It is now 
preparing to scale back law enforcement and litigation efforts, putting 
at risk the safety and stability of our markets.
  These are just three agencies. The list goes on.
  The bill that is before us today to fund the agencies covered by the 
Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill is not 
the bill I would have written myself. I am disappointed that, after 
securing funding last year to help States better defend their election 
systems, we were unable to lock down additional money for next year.
  The overwhelming demand for assistance is clearly there, as every 
single State and eligible territory requested funding. However, even 
though the President and many of my Republican colleagues refuse to do 
what is needed to defend our election systems from foreign 
interference, we must do what is right and what is responsible. That is 
why I am still going to support this bill. Ultimately, it will do the 
foundational job the American people expect us to do.
  This bill provides resources for our core government operations to 
resume and function properly, whether it is the Federal Communications 
Commission, the National Archives, the Federal judiciary, or Federal 
drug control offices.
  It is time--13 days past time--to end the ego trips and nonsense and 
get back to work.
  I believe we should always strive for bipartisanship when we can. 
That is exactly what the Senate did when they overwhelmingly passed the 
bills we are voting on tonight.
  While I would never ask my colleagues, whether Democrat or 
Republican, to cave on their core convictions, that is exactly what the 
President and House Republicans are asking us to do by wasting over $5 
billion on an ineffective border wall that has come to serve one 
purpose alone: to symbolize hate, exclusion, and irrational fear.
  This is clearly not how you negotiate a deal in good faith, and it is 
never appropriate to hold paychecks and vital government services 
hostage as a dealmaking tactic. Stop covering for the President as he 
doubles down on his reckless mistake. Pass these Senate-supported 
bills, and provide American families, businesses, and communities with 
the certainty they deserve.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Harris).


Mr. HARRIS. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Texas for 
yielding.
  Madam Speaker, we are less than 8 hours into this new Congress. We 
heard a promise from the Speaker today about transparency, openness, 
and, maybe, regular order; yet we have a bill in front of us, one of 
the most major bills we would consider the entire year, that has not 
gone through the committee process. In fact, it was drawn up behind 
closed doors, with no debate. We have dozens of new Members, none of 
whom are allowed input into this product because it didn't come through 
the committee process.
  What if some of these changes are made?
  We had a bill that had come through the process, but there were 
changes made. The gentlewoman from North Carolina talked about one of 
them: the fact that many, many Americans--the majority of Americans--
feel we already spend too much on foreign aid.
  This bill says we are now going to change our policy from the last 
few years, and we are now going to spend money to fund abortion 
programs in foreign countries for the purpose of family planning--not 
for medical purposes, but for the purposes of family planning. The vast 
majority of Americans would disagree and say, with a $22 trillion debt, 
we probably shouldn't be spending money overseas funding abortions for 
family planning.
  We may have gotten a chance to debate this in committee, but we 
didn't. Less than 8 hours into the session, we have a major bill on the 
floor and no debate.
  But it goes further than that. It restores funding to the United 
Nations Population Fund. In committee, we should have had a debate 
about the United Nations Population Fund and how, in fact, it funds 
China's coercive forced sterilization and forced abortion policy.
  Is that what the United States is about: sending money overseas for 
forced sterilization and forced abortion?
  That discussion belongs in committee. It doesn't belong, again, added 
to a bill under the dark of night, with no discussion.
  It goes further. It increases funding for international family 
planning and encourages targeting areas of the world ``where population 
growth threatens biodiversity and endangered species.''
  It doesn't mention anything about human life or the value of human 
life here. It talks about every other species in the environment as if 
they are more
important than human life, a very interesting approach to take, but an 
approach that probably should have been discussed in committee first.
  Finally, as a physician, it removes the protective language that says 
that the District of Columbia should not, in fact, promote Jack 
Kevorkian-style, physician-assisted suicide; because, Madam Speaker, if 
you can't trust your figures to make each and every judgment in your 
best interest, not the interest of an HMO that can save money or an 
insurance company that can save money or the organization that 
physician works for that can save money if that person agrees to take a 
suicide-producing drug prescribed by that physician, if we go down that 
slippery slope, I don't want to know where we end.
  Madam Speaker, this bill should have come through the committee 
process. It should have gone through debate.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, before I yield to my next speaker, I would 
like to remind the gentleman from Maryland that this bill was supported 
by Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham, among other Senators; therefore, 
he might want to take up his issues with them.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. Clyburn), the majority whip.
                              {time}  2000


Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding me 
this time and thank her so much for her service to this great Nation.
  Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this bill to reopen the 
government. For the past 2 weeks, vital public services have been left 
undone and honorable public servants have been left unpaid. We must end 
the shameless shutdown.
  The Democratic majority has a disagreement with the President on 
whether a wall is the best way to secure our southern border and 
whether it would be a productive step toward fixing our broken 
immigration system.
  We will continue to debate the issue, as we should, but there is 
absolutely no reason why the Federal Government should not be serving 
the American people while we debate this issue.
  There is absolutely no reason why national parks shouldn't be 
maintained. There is absolutely no reason why museums should be closed. 
There is no reason why public officer training should cease. There is 
absolutely no reason why our economy should grow by $2 billion less 
every week, as economists have estimated. There is absolutely no reason 
why homeowners and small business owners shouldn't be able to receive 
loans in a timely manner.
  The American people voted for a divided government, but they did not 
vote for a defunct government. Over the next 2 years, we must not let 
our disagreements stop us from moving forward on issues where we do 
agree.
  Madam Speaker, I have been spending a lot of time in recent weeks 
rereading a great book, ``Democracy in America,'' written by Alexis de 
Tocqueville; and although many historians disagree as to whether or not 
de Tocqueville ever really said it, the fact of the matter is, he is 
credited with having said that the reason America is a great Nation is 
because the American people are good people. And he concluded that if 
the American people ever ceased to be good, America would cease to be 
great.
  The fact of the matter is, this shutting down the government, not 
paying public servants, and not giving vital services to people and 
communities who need them is demonstrative of the fact that Americans 
are losing their goodness.
  Let's not do that. It will cause the greatness of this Nation to be 
brought into danger.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Washington (Mr. Newhouse).


Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman, my friend from 
Texas, for yielding.
  Madam Speaker, I rise on this first day of the 116th Congress with, 
frankly, a great deal of disappointment in my friends across the aisle. 
In the very first act of their new majority, Democrats have passed a 
set of rules to allow the debt limit to be raised automatically, to 
remove protections that prevent tax hikes on the American people, and 
to weaken the requirement that offsets be provided when Federal 
spending is increased.
  It is clear my colleagues have chosen to focus more on tax-and-spend 
priorities rather than fiscal responsibility and accountability.
  As a part of this same first act, my friends across the aisle are now 
circumventing regular order and bringing new spending legislation 
straight to the floor for a vote, with no opportunity for debate or 
ability to offer amendments.
  As someone who has served on both the Committee on Rules and the 
Committee on Appropriations, I have heard firsthand, repeatedly, my 
colleagues across the aisle shout the importance of going through 
regular order and allowing debate and amendments on these bills.
  With this move today, the very first act in their majority, the 
Democrats are cutting the Rules Committee and the Appropriations 
Committee completely out of the process.
  The legislation before us never had a hearing, was never marked up, 
never came to the Rules Committee for a vote. Most disappointingly, 
Democrats have negated the bills crafted carefully by the 
Appropriations Committee over the past year and thrown out legislative 
provisions that were negotiated and agreed upon by both sides of the 
aisle.
  Madam Speaker, I look forward to the opportunity to work to find 
common ground with my colleagues in the majority, but today I am 
sincerely disappointed in these first moves of the 116th Congress.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Missouri (Mrs. Hartzler).


Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 21, the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, for many reasons but, 
importantly, because the underlying legislation strips away essential 
protections for young mothers and unborn babies, disregarding the value 
of their lives.
  Today's minibus eliminates a crucial pro-life foreign policy that is 
in place today known as the Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance 
program. President Ronald Reagan instituted this policy to provide 
healthcare for women in foreign countries while ensuring that U.S. 
taxpayer dollars would not be used to fuel the national abortion 
industry.
  U.S. foreign assistance should be life affirming. The Protecting Life 
in Global Health Assistance policy draws a clear line between abortion 
and global healthcare.
  Foreign nongovernmental organizations should be eligible for U.S. 
Federal funding as long as they do not perform or actively promote 
abortion as a method of birth control. Protecting Life in Global Health 
Assistance affirms the inherent worth and dignity of women and children 
around the world, and it is tragic that today's bill nullifies these 
pro-life protections.
  So, because of that, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting 
against H.R. 21.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Lamborn).


Mr. LAMBORN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Texas for 
her leadership.
  Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 21, which repeals the 
Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance policy. This is a 
commonsense policy that simply guarantees that U.S. taxpayer dollars do 
not promote or perform abortions overseas.
  Organizations such as International Planned Parenthood and Marie 
Stopes International are responsible for millions of abortions overseas 
every year, and they do not deserve support from American taxpayers.
  Taxpayer dollars are better spent on the health of children and 
mothers and on malaria and HIV prevention and treatment rather than on 
snuffing out the lives of unborn children.
  It is amazing that, on their first day of taking power, House 
Democrats are pushing an extreme position far to the left. American 
taxpayers simply don't want to fund abortions with their hard-earned 
dollars, and it is even more amazing that this exercise is being 
performed on a bill that will not be
brought up in the Senate and will not be signed by the President. It is 
a bill that is going nowhere.
  Madam Speaker, I strongly oppose the repeal of this life-affirming 
provision, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on H.R. 21.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I just want to make something perfectly 
clear.
  The United States does not and cannot fund abortions. Let me say that 
again. The United States does not and cannot fund abortions, period.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. Johnson).
  Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Madam Speaker, I rise to share a deep 
concern that I and many of my colleagues share about H.R. 21.
  If what our colleague said is true, then we should just take this 
provision out of the bill. To revise or rescind the Mexico City policy 
would do precisely the opposite of what the gentlewoman just said at 
the podium.
  In 1984, President Ronald Reagan made a strong international stance 
for life. He announced that the United States would carry on the 
tradition of protecting the innocent, not only at home but around the 
globe. With this promise, the United States would no longer allow 
taxpayer dollars to be sent overseas to promote abortion as a method 
for family planning. That is what this policy does.
  We are thankful for the countless lives that have been saved because 
of President Reagan's willingness to embrace the innocent, and I remain 
thankful to President Trump for carrying on this proud legacy.
  Unfortunately, Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance is now at 
risk. In the legislation before us today, the new Democratic leadership 
has moved to overturn this important policy that was just articulated.
  Let us say this clearly. The United States should never underwrite 
abortions. Taxpayers deserve better, children deserve better, and 
families deserve better. We must continue to be the shining light on 
the hill to protect the innocent and assist women and children in their 
time of need.
  What a shame it would be if the very first action in the 116th 
Congress is to send foreign aid to fund abortions overseas.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. Banks).


Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I too rise in strong opposition to the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, H.R. 21.
  I am appalled that the very first initiative by this Democratic 
majority is to push for taxpayer-funded subsidies to international 
organizations that promote and perform abortions.
  Madam Speaker, this bill would repeal President Trump's Protecting 
Life in Global Health Assistance policy, or the expanded Mexico City 
policy, which prohibits global health funding from going to foreign 
NGOs that perform or promote abortion.
  Madam Speaker, the expanded Mexico City policy does not change the 
amount of money available for global health and family planning 
programs. In fact, all qualified international family planning 
organizations are eligible for U.S. grant money if they agree to set 
conditions upon acceptance.
  The choice has been up to the NGO; either agree not to perform or 
promote abortions or forego funding from the United States.
  A 6-month review of the policy by the State Department found that, 
out of 733 prime partners eligible for U.S. grant money, only 4 of them 
declined to the conditions set by the expanded Mexico City policy.
  Madam Speaker, a vote in support of this minibus is a vote to abandon 
the principle that U.S. foreign assistance should be life affirming; it 
should support the health of both women and unborn children.
  Abortion is not healthcare. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to 
vote ``no'' on this bill and uphold the Protecting Life in Global 
Health Assistance policy.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on 
the bill before us today, and I yield back the balance of my time.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  It is long past time to end the Trump shutdown. As our first 
legislative act of the year, we should isolate the political dispute 
over border security and reopen the government.
  There is simply no reason the Senate should not pass the package, 
given that they wrote the six full-year bills and passed a CR through 
February.
  Madam Speaker, I urge Members to vote ``yes,'' and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous question is ordered on 
the bill.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.
                           Motion to Recommit


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the gentlewoman opposed to the bill?


Ms. GRANGER. I am in its current form.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Ms. Granger moves to recommit the bill H.R. 21 to the 
     Committee on Appropriations with instructions to report the 
     same back to the House forthwith, with the following 
     amendment:
       Page 1021, strike line 15 and all that follows through page 
     1023, line 19 (and redesignate subsequent sections 
     accordingly).
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from Texas is recognized for 
5 minutes.
                              {time}  2015


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, this is the final amendment to the bill, 
which will not kill the bill or send it back to committee. If adopted, 
the bill will immediately proceed to final passage, as amended.
  This motion to recommit strikes the section of the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act that 
reverses the President's Protecting Life and Global Health Assistance 
Policy, formerly known as the Mexico City Policy. This policy is 
important to protect life and must be maintained.
  The bill also mandates that funds be made available for UNFPA, and 
this motion to recommit strikes that requirement. The administration 
has determined that this United Nations agency has violated certain 
provisions of law. No fund should go to UNFPA. We must support this 
motion to recommit and amend the bill before us to ensure that pro-life 
policies are maintained.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New Jersey 
(Mr. Smith).
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Speaker, if reopening the government 
is the goal, if ending the shutdown is the goal, why does this 
appropriations package contain a brand-new poison pill rider, section 
7071, that overturns a major, comprehensive, current-day pro-life 
policy?
  Let's be clear. The Protecting Life and Global Health Assistance 
Policy is eviscerated by this bill. The Protecting Life Policy, Madam 
Speaker, is a significant reiteration and expansion of President Ronald 
Reagan's Mexico City policy, which was first announced back in 1984, 
and that policy was and is designed to ensure that U.S. taxpayer money 
is not funneled to foreign nongovernmental organizations that perform 
or promote abortion as a method of family planning.
  The policy done by Trump 2 years ago establishes pro-child safeguards 
that are benign and humane conditions. It is about protection of these 
innocent children who might otherwise die from chemical poisoning or by 
dismemberment.
  For years, pro-abortion organizations have used U.S. taxpayer funds 
to weaken, undermine, or reverse pro-life laws in other nations and 
destroy precious lives of these children.
  The Speaker earlier today admonished us to protect God's creation. 
These unborn children are God's creation. They cry out for our 
protection. U.S. foreign policy and the foreign entities that we fund 
with billions of dollars of tax money, grant money--this is
grant money--should consistently affirm, care for, and tangibly assist 
women and children, including the unborn child.
  Let's not forget, no one is expendable or a throwaway. Every human 
life has imminent value. Birth is merely an event, not the beginning of 
the life of a child. Taxpayers should not be forced to fund the 
organizations that are promoting abortion overseas.
  This allows us--and it doesn't reduce global humanitarian aid, global 
health aid by so much as a dollar. It just is who we give it to does 
matter, and if they have an agenda of taking the lives of these 
precious children, we would give it to someone else, and we do so on a 
dollar-for-dollar basis.
  I thank my good friend for yielding, and I hope that everyone will 
support the Granger motion to recommit.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of 
this motion, and I yield back the balance of my time.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the motion to 
recommit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from New York is recognized 
for 5 minutes.


Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, responsibly funding the Federal Government 
is one of the most important duties of Congress. The previous majority 
failed to do so, and they failed to do the most basic task of keeping 
the lights on. Here on day one of the 116th Congress, we Democrats are 
here to reopen Federal agencies shuttered by the Trump shutdown.
  This legislation, which has already garnered strong bipartisan 
support in the Senate, will ensure that the Federal Government is open 
and working for the American people.
  The House package includes the identical provisions relating to 
international family planning that were included in the State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs bill that was reported unanimously by 
the Senate Appropriations Committee 6 months ago, including ``aye'' 
votes by Senators McConnell and Graham. The bill continues the 
longstanding prohibition on the use of U.S. funds for abortion.
  The President's executive order goes beyond existing U.S. law and 
forces the United States to withhold critical family planning 
assistance from nongovernmental organizations with expertise, capacity, 
and proven track records on supporting women's health around the globe.
  The Mexico City policy, or the global gag rule, is a harmful policy 
that hurts women and families around the world. The President's 
expanded policy prevents women from around the world from gaining 
access to essential information and healthcare services.
  We are already on the 13th day of the Trump shutdown. We need to pass 
these bills without further delay. For that reason, Madam Speaker, I 
urge my colleagues to reject this motion to recommit and vote ``no.''
  Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to recommit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.


Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
                          



Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, by direction of the Democratic Caucus, I 
offer a privileged resolution and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 7
       Resolved, That the following named Members be, and are 
     hereby, elected to the following standing committees of the 
     House of Representatives:
       (1) Committee on appropriations.--Mrs. Lowey, Chair.
       (2) Committee on the budget.--Mr. Yarmuth, Chair.
       (3) Committee on energy and commerce.--Mr. Pallone, Chair.
       (4) Committee on financial services.--Ms. Waters, Chair.
       (5) Committee on rules.--Mr. McGovern, Chair.
       (6) Committee on ways and means.--Mr. Neal, Chair.
  Mr. JEFFRIES (during the reading). Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that the resolution be considered as read and printed in the 
Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution and ask for 
its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 2
       Resolved, That the Senate be informed that a quorum of the 
     House of Representatives has assembled; that Nancy Pelosi, a 
     Representative from the State of California, has been elected 
     Speaker; and that Karen L. Haas, a citizen of the State of 
     Maryland, has been elected Clerk of the House of 
     Representatives of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          



Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, as chairman of the Democratic Caucus, I 
have been directed to report to the House that the Democratic Members 
have selected as majority leader the distinguished gentleman from 
Maryland, the Honorable Steny Hoyer.
                        


Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, as chairman of the Republican Conference, 
I have been directed to report to the House that the Republican Members 
have selected as minority leader the gentleman from California, the 
Honorable Kevin McCarthy
                        


Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, as chairman of the Democratic Caucus, I 
have been directed to report to the House that the Democratic Members 
have selected as majority whip the distinguished gentleman from South 
Carolina, the Honorable James E. Clyburn, and that we also have 
selected as our Assistant Speaker, the distinguished gentleman from New 
Mexico, the Honorable Ben Ray Lujan.
                        


Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, as chairman of the House Republican 
Conference, I have been directed to report to the House that the 
Republican Members have selected as minority whip the gentleman from 
Louisiana, the Honorable  Steve Scalise.
                        


Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution and ask 
for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 1
       Resolved, That Karen L. Haas of the State of Maryland, be, 
     and is hereby, chosen Clerk of the House of Representatives.
       That Paul D. Irving of the State of Florida be, and is 
     hereby, chosen Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of 
     Representatives.
       That Philip George Kiko of the State of Ohio be, and is 
     hereby, chosen Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
     Representatives.
       That Father Patrick J. Conroy of the State of Oregon be, 
     and is hereby, chosen Chaplain of the House of 
     Representatives.
 


Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Wyoming 
(Ms. Cheney) for the purpose of offering an amendment.


Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I have an amendment to the resolution, but 
before offering the amendment, I request that there be a division of 
the question on the resolution so that we may have a separate vote on 
the Chaplain.
  The SPEAKER. The question will be divided.
  The question is on agreeing to that portion of the resolution 
providing for the election of the Chaplain.
  That portion of the resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                    Amendment Offered by Ms. Cheney


Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I offer an amendment to the remainder of 
the resolution.
  The SPEAKER. The Clerk will report the amendment.
  The Clerk read as follows:
  Amendment offered by Ms. Cheney:
  That Barrett Karr of the State of Texas be, and is hereby, chosen 
Clerk of the House of Representatives;
  That James Min of the State of California be, and is hereby, chosen 
Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of Representatives; and
  That Bill Hughes of the State of South Dakota be, and is hereby, 
chosen Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.
  The SPEAKER. The question is on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Wyoming.
  The amendment was rejected.
  The SPEAKER. The question is on the remainder of the resolution 
offered by the gentleman from New York.
  The remainder of the resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
  The SPEAKER. The Chair will now swear in the officers of the House: 
Karen L. Haas, Paul D. Irving, Phillip George Kiko, and Patrick J. 
Conroy.
  The officers presented themselves in the well of the House and took 
the oath of office as follows:
       Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the 
     Constitution of the United States against all enemies, 
     foreign and domestic; that you will bear true faith and 
     allegiance to the same; that you take this obligation freely, 
     without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and 
     that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the 
     office on which you are about to enter, so help you God.
  The SPEAKER. Congratulations.
                          



Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, if the Speaker and the House would give me 
leave, let me say how proud I am to see Mr. Langevin presiding over the 
House of Representatives; how proud I am that we have made a reasonable 
accommodation, so somebody like Jim Langevin from Rhode Island, whose 
character and intellect has commended him to the electorate of Rhode 
Island to send him to the House of Representatives; how proud I am that 
we made a reasonable accommodation in the House of Representatives so 
that Mr. Langevin, as he properly should have the ability to do, 
preside over the House of Representatives.
  Congratulations, Mr. Langevin, for your courage and your leadership 
and your extraordinary example.
                        


Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution and ask for 
its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows
                               H. Res. 4
       Resolved, That the Clerk be instructed to inform the 
     President of the United States that the House of 
     Representatives has elected Nancy Pelosi, a Representative 
     from the State of California as Speaker, and Karen L. Haas, a 
     citizen of the State of Maryland as Clerk, of the House of 
     Representatives of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          



Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise as the designee of the Republican leader, and I 
thank Chairman McGovern for yielding me 30 minutes.
  First and foremost, I welcome my good friend, Mr. McGovern, and 
congratulate him on being named the chairman of the Rules Committee. 
While he and I have been on opposite sides of the Rules Committee dais 
for years, I know him as a passionate advocate for his beliefs and as a 
good friend. He and his staff have already been great to work with as 
we start the new Congress, and I am very much looking forward to 
working with him in our new roles at the Rules Committee this Congress.
  However, it is unfortunate that I rise today to oppose the first 
measure to be put forth by my friend. I know the gentleman from 
Massachusetts cares deeply about this institution and wants nothing 
more than to foster an open and fair process.
  Over the years, he has called for more open rules, more amendments, 
and more debate time, so it is a little surprising that this resolution 
and the resolution we will consider later provide for limited debate in 
some instances, closed rules, and what Democrats in the past have so 
fondly referred to as martial law. I understand there are 
justifications for these decisions, but I find it noteworthy that the 
first measures out of the gate under the majority include these 
provisions.
  This measure, House Resolution 5, makes in order both the Democrat 
rules package to govern the 116th Congress and separate appropriations 
measures to fund the government. The rules package to start a new 
Congress is always an opportunity to start fresh and improve the 
institution.
  While I applaud certain ideas in this rules package, as a whole, the 
package does not rise to that lofty goal. There are some good 
bipartisan ideas in this package for improving the institution, but, on 
the whole, the package reflects only Democrat priorities. For that 
reason, I will be opposing it.
  In the spirit of bipartisanship, I will first point out areas of 
agreement. As I said previously, there are some good ideas in this 
package, and my friend from Massachusetts should be applauded for 
including them. Indeed, many of these ideas are ones Republicans had 
previously utilized in Congresses past.
  In the last Congress, we maintained the practice of requiring 
committees to hold a Member Day hearing, where members who were not on 
a specific committee could come before the committee to talk about 
their pieces of legislation falling under that committee's 
jurisdiction. I am gratified my Democrat friends are seeking to 
continue that practice.
  We are also gratified to see that the standard for committee markup 
notices will be 3 business days. This has been the practice, and I am 
happy to see my friends making it official in the rules.
  We also support the idea of a Select Committee on the Modernization 
of Congress. This new select committee will have 12 members, evenly 
divided among Republicans and Democrats, and will be charged with 
investigating, studying, and making recommendations on modernizing 
Congress.
  While this provision is not perfect and would have been better had it 
included the Senate, this will give the House a chance to develop and 
improve our processes and modernize the institution. I will have more 
to say on this idea tomorrow, but, for now, I think many of my 
Republican colleagues will certainly be inclined to support it.
  I would also like to point out a few additional good ideas that my 
friends have included that we approach with a tone of skeptical 
optimism.
  First, the majority is requiring that every bill that comes to the 
Rules Committee have been the subject of a hearing or a markup. I 
genuinely hope this produces thoughtful legislation. I would point out 
that the hearing requirement is met merely by a committee of 
jurisdiction including a list of hearings that were used to develop 
that bill in the committee report. I am hopeful that committees take 
this requirement seriously and hold hearings this Congress directly 
related to the measures, as opposed to hearings loosely connected to 
the legislation or subject matter.
  Second, I believe many Members on both sides of the aisle support the 
spirit behind the Consensus Calendar. Under this provision, bills that 
receive 290 cosponsors and that have not been reported out by the 
committee of jurisdiction can receive a floor vote. In general, 
Republicans think this is a good idea, but we will be interested to see 
how it will work in practice and if it will yield the desired results.
  Third, my friends are seeking to replace the existing 3-day notice 
with a 72-hour notice rule. Under this rule, they must post the text of 
any legislation to be considered on the floor 72 hours before it comes 
to a vote.
  Of course, as my friend knows, legislation is sometimes posted late 
at night or in the early hours of the morning, and I am hopeful that 
this will not mean a lot of late-night legislating or attempts to pass 
bills right as the 72 hours expires. In situations where the 72 hours 
lands us at midnight, I am hopeful the majority will
view the 72 hours as a minimum and will wait to hold votes until the 
light of day, as the American people deserve.
  As my friend also knows, he and I have had discussions off the floor 
about the impact of this provision in the rule that could impact the 
inclusion of minority views, and I appreciate him working with me on 
legislative history clarifying that provision and ensuring that the 
rule is in no way intended to suppress minority or dissenting views. As 
with the consensus calendar, we are interested to see how these 
provisions will work in practice.
  Mr. Speaker, now that I have let my good friend know what he got 
right, it is time for me to let him know where we think he went wrong.
  First and foremost, the Democratic rules package repeals a lot of the 
critical fiscal responsibility measures that Republicans have adhered 
to in years past. The repeal of these measures is undoubtedly intended 
to make it easier to do what Democrats have so often promised to do: 
spend more money, raise taxes to cover it, and repeat the cycle.
  This is a recipe for driving our Nation deeper and deeper into debt. 
If we fail to keep our fiscal house in order, it will threaten the 
stability of our economy, our national security, and the American way 
of life. Unfortunately, I believe these rules changes are a threat to 
that.
  Mr. Speaker, I think this point is so important that I want to list 
out the fiscal responsibility measures that Democrats are eliminating.
  First, Democrats are repealing what we call the CutGo under 
Republican majorities, which meant, in order to spend money, we had to 
cut money. Democrats are replacing it with a paygo rule, which allows 
them to offset the cost of measures by raising revenue or taxing 
Americans.
  They are eliminating the requirement that the House agree by at least 
a three-fifths supermajority to raise revenue through additional 
Federal income taxes. This will make it easier for Democrats to tax 
Americans to pay for their expensive policies.
  The rules package brings back the so-called Gephardt rule and creates 
a provision that says that when the House passes a budget resolution--
not both Chambers--a separate joint resolution suspending the Federal 
debt ceiling through September 30 of that year is also deemed to have 
passed the House.
  Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, I think this is emblematic of what the 
Democrats wish to accomplish. The Gephardt rule sweeps the national 
debt ceiling under a rug and ensures that Democrats will be able to 
spend with impunity, without worrying about hitting the limit on the 
national credit card. I, for one, think this is a bad practice and bad 
policy and will lead only to more and more unnecessary deficit 
spending.
  The rules package we are considering today also authorizes the House 
to intervene in the Texas v. United States lawsuit over the legality of 
the Affordable Care Act. I cannot think of a single member on the 
Republican side who wants to give the Speaker this authority.
  The same can be said for the provision authorizing the Office of 
Legal Counsel to explore options for responding to a Department of 
Agriculture proposed rulemaking over SNAP benefits for able-bodied 
adults. Inconceivably, this provision in the rules is also hopelessly 
vague and represents a blanket grant of authority to simply do 
something without saying what.
  Finally, and most notably, the Democrats are choosing to respond to 
the demands of one wing of their caucus by establishing a Select 
Committee on the Climate Crisis to study and make recommendations on 
climate change.
  This committee is ill-conceived from the start. It takes away 
jurisdiction from standing committees in the House and gives it to a 
brand new panel rigged with a supermajority of Democrats. Indeed, we do 
not know where exactly the jurisdiction of this panel begins and ends, 
since it is conceivable it could dig into all kinds of areas.
  Unlike most other committees in the House, this one does not adhere 
to the negotiated ratio of membership, and, instead, it calls for nine 
Democrats and six Republicans. The Democrats have also failed to tell 
us how this new panel will be funded, where the money for it will come 
from, or how it will be used.
  Again, I cannot think of a single Republican who thinks this new 
panel is a good idea. Earlier in my statement, I used the phrase 
``skeptical optimism'' to describe how I would approach some of the 
rules changes my friends are proposing. With this proposal, I can 
approach it with merely skepticism.
  Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Appropriations Committee, I would be 
remiss if I did not shift gears and address the other major proposal 
covered by the rule. My Democratic friends are seeking to make in order 
on the floor an appropriations package to reopen the government 
agencies that are currently affected by the shutdown.
  While I applaud them for seeking to fully fund the government, which 
is the single highest priority of any Member of Congress, they have 
done so in the worst way possible, and I will be opposing the package.
  To start, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats are proposing a package of six 
bills covering the bulk of the closed agencies and are proposing to 
fund them for the full fiscal year. Unfortunately, what the Democrats 
have done is put up a package of six bills produced by the Senate. If 
the House chooses to pass these bills, we will be abrogating any and 
all ability for the House to affect the final spending package. None of 
these six bills reflect any work done by the House Appropriations 
Committee or the House at large, and I, for one, do not think it wise 
to surrender all ability to produce a final product like that.
  Our own priorities as a coequal house of Congress will not be 
represented in this bill, and, instead, we merely are being given only 
the opportunity to vote on what the Senate has produced.
  Second, the Democrats are proposing a continuing resolution to fund 
the Department of Homeland Security through February 8. This, again, is 
an ill-conceived idea. It simply will kick the can down the road on 
fully funding the department through the fiscal year. It does not 
provide any additional money for border security, which Americans have 
told us time and time again that they want and need.
  Most notably, this bill is part of a package that the Senate will not 
pass and the President will not sign. Why would we surrender our 
authority and our ability to produce a legislative product on a 
quixotic effort that is going nowhere?
  While I appreciate the attempt by my Democratic colleagues to reopen 
the government, I do not think the package is an appropriate way to do 
so, and I would encourage all of my colleagues to oppose it.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to say again how gratified I am that 
I will be working closely with my friend from Massachusetts during this 
Congress. I have said some critical things about the rule he is placing 
on the floor, but let no one think that my disagreements with him over 
matters of policy or procedure reflect how I feel about him as a 
person.
  As he so kindly noted last week, we can disagree without being 
disagreeable. I look forward to attempting to live up to those words as 
we work together in the coming 2 years. With that, I urge opposition to 
the rule.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Oklahoma for his kind words. 
My mother and father are up in the gallery, so they are very impressed 
that you said nice things about me.
  I am going to say nice things about you, too, but I was saving it 
until the end to see the tone of your speech. But I appreciate very 
much what you said.
  Let me just make a couple of statements in response.
  The gentleman made mention about martial law, and, yes, there is 
limited martial law or same-day authority in this package. I am going 
to say to the gentleman that there should be. If there ever was a time 
to move legislation quickly, it is while nearly 800,000 Federal 
employees, including our law enforcement officers, like FBI and DEA and 
CBP agents, are going without a paycheck.
  Enough is enough. We need to open the government, and same-day 
authority for appropriations bills only lets us do that as quickly as 
we are able to.
  I just want to remind my friends on the other side of the aisle that 
you had blanket martial law authority before
the holidays. I even voted for the rule providing for it. We did that 
so that we could move quickly to make sure hardworking Americans 
weren't left without a paycheck over Christmas.
  But what did you do instead of utilizing that same-day authority to 
consider a bill to keep the government open? That is not what you did. 
You held an emergency Rules Committee meeting on a bill to define 
natural cheese. That was the priority, apparently, in the Rules 
Committee. I mean, seriously. This may seem like a novel concept to my 
Republican friends, but this is exactly what responsible governance 
looks like.
  Not having the ability to fund government as expeditiously as 
possible and to clean up this Republican mess would be an abdication of 
our duty as a new Democratic House majority to keep the lights on for 
the American people's government. I don't recall--maybe you can correct 
me--in history, when we have ever started a new Congress in a shutdown 
that was caused by the previous Congress.
                              {time}  1630
  I mean, I would have thought that my friends would have wanted to 
kind of clean things up before they left town, but they didn't do that. 
I was here. I was on the floor trying to get the attention of the 
presiding Speaker to allow us to bring up a continuing resolution to 
keep the government running, and I was routinely not recognized.
  I mean, this is crazy. The bills that we are talking about were 
approved overwhelmingly by either the Senate Appropriations Committee 
or the entire Senate. There is, like, no controversy on these bills. 
And most of these bills have nothing to do with border security, quite 
frankly. Yet, the President of the United States is holding a big chunk 
of our government hostage because he is having a temper tantrum, and it 
just has to stop.
  So we are going to do what the American people want us to do. We are 
going to expeditiously bring before this Congress legislation to reopen 
the government, and we hope to do that. I hope my friends on the other 
side of the aisle will join with us.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
Castor), the distinguished chairwoman of the new Select Committee on 
the Climate Crisis.
  Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, the House 
Rules Chairman, Jim McGovern, for crafting a transformative rules 
package that we hope will re-instill confidence of the American people 
in this Congress; confidence that we can address the challenges that 
our country faces, whether it is opening the government, or it is 
protecting our neighbors who have preexisting health conditions, and 
making a statement about ethics in government as a priority.
  But I want to thank Chairman McGovern and Speaker Pelosi especially 
for re-instituting the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis.
  A few years ago, in 2007, Speaker Pelosi instituted the Select 
Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. When the 
Republicans took over in 2010, they dismissed the committee. They 
wouldn't have hearings. Meanwhile, the cost of the changing climate 
escalated.
  I come from the State of Florida where we are seeing enormous cost, 
not even counting the extreme weather events. This is the challenge of 
our time.
  So, in this rules package, the Democrats will re-institute a climate 
change committee called the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. In 
doing so, we intend to press for urgent action in defense of America 
and our way of life.
  We want dramatic reductions in carbon pollution. We want to make 
clean energy a pillar of our economy and create the green jobs of today 
and the future. You see, we have a moral obligation to our children and 
future generations to do this.
  So, again, Chairman McGovern, my Democratic colleagues, Speaker 
Pelosi, thank you for listening, heeding the calls of the American 
people. We will tackle this challenge, and we need your help, America.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, when we defeat the previous question, I will 
offer an amendment to the resolution.
  I ask unanimous consent to insert the text of my amendment, along 
with extraneous material, in the Record immediately prior to the vote 
on the previous question.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Oklahoma?
  There was no objection.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Oregon 
(Mr. Walden) to explain the amendment.


Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I come here today with a very simple request 
and in the spirit of this new Congress and a fresh start.
  Let us come together and make sure that those Americans with 
preexisting health conditions are protected, period.
  Republicans have language to protect people with preexisting health 
conditions which we believe should be included in this rules package. 
But that can only happen if the new Democratic majority allows it.
  Let me explain why it is needed at this time. Last year, 20 State 
attorneys general filed a lawsuit against ObamaCare arguing that the 
law's individual mandate is unconstitutional
and, therefore, the entire law is unconstitutional.
  On December 14 of last year, a Federal judge in Texas agreed with the 
plaintiffs and issued a summary judgment stating: ``The individual 
mandate is essential to and inseverable from the other provisions of 
the ACA'' therefore, the judge has ruled the entire Affordable Care Act 
is unconstitutional.
  It is important to note that the judge's decision does not 
immediately end ObamaCare and will not affect the insurance coverage or 
premiums for 2019. And, in fact, the judge has ordered a stay of his 
earlier ruling pending appeal.
  Additionally, the ruling is already being appealed by other attorneys 
general from States that had intervened in the lawsuit to defend 
ObamaCare, and that means several legal steps remain before the courts 
reach a final conclusion where the ruling could be reversed.
  Even though these State AGs are already intervening in the case, the 
Democratic rules package includes a provision authorizing the House 
General Counsel to also intervene in the case. That effort does not 
preserve preexisting condition protections. The Republican proposal 
would.
  Put simply, the Texas court ruled that ObamaCare's individual mandate 
is unconstitutional.
  Now, we also know it didn't work. The individual mandate didn't live 
up to its promise. We were told that the individual mandate would 
encourage enrollment. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office argued 
24 million Americans would enroll in ObamaCare by 2018, but less than 
half that number actually enrolled and paid for their coverage. Twelve 
million others paid the penalty or claimed an exemption.
  Moreover, those that have signed up have seen skyrocketing premiums 
and thousands of dollars in deductibles. Preexisting condition 
protections are greatly diminished when you cannot afford your premiums 
or your deductible.
  Republicans have long supported preexisting condition protection for 
Americans. In fact, in 2016, our healthcare agenda, A Better Way: Our 
Vision for a Confident America, we clearly stated: ``No American should 
ever be denied coverage or face a coverage exclusion on the basis of a 
preexisting condition. Our plan ensures every American, healthy or 
sick, will have the comfort of knowing they can never be denied a plan 
from a health insurer.''
  It was also one of my first bills as chairman of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee that I introduced in February of 2017. It required 
health insurers to allow every eligible applicant to enroll in their 
plans, regardless of factors like health status, age, or income, and it 
also prohibited benefit exclusions and banned health status 
underwriting.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds.


Mr. WALDEN. Effectively, that would ensure these important patient 
protections if ObamaCare were no longer the law. During the floor 
debate on the AHCA, the leaders of our party made clear we supported 
protections for those with preexisting conditions. That is our 
position, period.
  So today, we, once again, reinforce our support of people with 
preexisting conditions. Our language simply says Congress should 
produce legislation that guarantees no American citizen can be denied 
health insurance coverage as a result of a previous illness or health 
status, and it guarantees no American citizen can be charged higher 
premiums or cost sharing as a result of a previous illness or health 
status; thus, ensuring affordable health coverage for those with 
preexisting conditions.
  But we can only offer that if the Democratic majority allows it, and 
we would do so if the previous question is defeated.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I have to be honest with you, I am almost speechless. I mean, the 
gentleman from Oregon takes my breath away with his previous question 
amendment.
  I want to remind the gentleman that it was the Democrats that 
actually put in protections for people with preexisting conditions. We 
did so over the objections of the Republicans and, for almost a decade 
now, while my friends were in charge, they, time and time and time 
again tried to take away people's healthcare protections, including 
protections for people with preexisting conditions.
  This lawsuit, this judgment in Texas that recently came about that 
threatens people's healthcare protections was filed by the Republicans. 
I mean, they have been in charge of the House and the Senate and the 
White House, and they have done nothing to protect people with 
preexisting conditions. They have just tried to take these protections 
away.
  Now, I get it. We heard loud and clear in the last election that 
people don't agree with you. They don't agree with you. And we are 
going to do everything we can to protect people with preexisting 
conditions and to expand healthcare protections for everybody in this 
country because we believe that healthcare is a right and not a 
privilege.
  So when I hear my friends come here with a procedural motion, you 
know, that somehow they want to be the champions for people who are 
worried about their healthcare coverage, it is laughable.


Mr. WALDEN. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. McGOVERN. I yield to the gentleman from Oregon.


Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's comments. I 
don't agree with them, obviously, but I haven't heard the gentleman's 
objections to the language we proposed to offer to your rules package 
that already has different healthcare provisions in it. Is there 
anything here the gentleman objects to allowing us to offer?
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming my time, we are going to do 
something that my friends on the other side of the aisle did not do. We 
are going to legislate in a professional and proper manner. And as we 
debate healthcare in the future, it is going to go through regular 
order. We are going to take on, immediately right now, some of these 
court cases that we think present a danger to the American people.
  But the idea that the Republican friends are coming to the floor 
saying let's protect people with preexisting conditions, you know what? 
The American people don't believe it. That was the message in the last 
election. That was the message, because they know that dozens and 
dozens and dozens of times, Republicans came to this floor, used every 
trick in the book to try to undo the Affordable Care Act and, 
thankfully, you failed. And we put these protections in place and we 
will make sure they stay in place.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from the 
great State of Arizona (Mr. Schweikert).
                              {time}  1645


Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman, Mr. Cole, for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I will try to do this quickly. We are removing, in the 
Democratic Party rules package, macroeconomic analysis.
  Now, we all know right now the methodology used at Joint Tax, CBO. 
They actually do some of it no matter what, and they have long before 
it was put into the rules years ago.
  My great concern is, by the removal, I actually think we are sort of 
being a bit antimath, antiscience, antiopenness, antifacts, because 
walk through a couple examples with me.
  Tomorrow we double the tax on cigarettes. Do you get double the tax 
revenue? Of course not. People stop smoking.
  If there is a green agenda or when we are going to see paygo numbers, 
are we allowed to do macroeconomic analysis on that to tell us the 
economic effects?
  In other words, policy matters, and if we are going to engage in 
policy around here that changes the economic growth rates, that also 
changes tax revenues for the positive or the negative. Should we be 
honest about that?
  The rules package here strips the requirement that, on important 
legislation, we get a macroeconomic analysis, and that is my concern.
  For all of us who make public policy, we should have honest math, and 
we
should have math to understand the cascade effect: What are the effects 
in the economy? It is just that if we are going to make public policy, 
let's actually have the math that backs it up.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I will respond to the gentleman.
  I appreciate his point, but I just want to remind him that, while his 
party was in power, time and time and time again, I think I have lost 
count of how many bills came to this floor without a CBO score, never 
mind a dynamic score.
  Serving on the Rules Committee, I know of at least 68 bills in this 
last Congress that came to the Rules Committee that never had a hearing 
in a committee or a markup in a committee of jurisdiction.
  So we are going to go back to the committee process. We are going to 
make committees do their work. We are going to require that there be 
hearings on bills and markups on bills and have this place behave in 
the manner in which the American people expect it to.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Conaway), a distinguished gentleman and my good friend.


Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Speaker, both the chairman and ranking member of the 
Rules Committee have addressed, literally, a rule tucked away on page 
31 with respect to going after the Secretary of Agriculture's attempts 
to change the rules with respect to SNAP. My good colleague from 
Massachusetts is a master at cloaking this issue, any change to SNAP, 
as if Republicans are beating up on poor people.
  Mr. Speaker, this rule that the Secretary of Agriculture is proposing 
mirrors the House requirements with respect to changing waivers on SNAP 
that this House passed back in June, the House version of the farm 
bill.
  Throughout the entire conversation I had with our Senate colleagues 
on negotiating the conference report, both the Senate Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry chairman as well as the ranking member, and 
particularly the ranking member, the Democrat, reminded me over and 
over and over that Secretary Perdue had, in fact, all of the authority 
he needed to do what we wanted to do on the House bill; therefore, the 
House version was unnecessary and Secretary Perdue could move this 
forward.
  This rule addresses a-bods, able-bodied adults, people between the 
ages of 18 and 49 without dependents. Most folks would look at them and 
say that is a worker.
  Well, there is waiver abuse. Waiving the 20-hour-a-week work 
requirement has been abused by the system. I want to point out, until 
last September, the entire State of California was under work waiver, 
and we have, yet, a 4 percent unemployment rate across this Nation. It 
makes no sense.
  So what Secretary Perdue does is say, look, if you are willing to 
help yourself by working 20 hours a week, then you will, as an a-bod, 
be able to stay on food stamps, unlimited. If you are unwilling to help 
yourself, demonstrate that you can help yourself, then your SNAP 
requirements will be limited to 3 months out of every 36.
  The impact it would have is this: With the now famous YouTube show, 
or wherever I saw it, we have a 27-year-old surfer from California who 
loves to surf--fantastic--but he doesn't like to work, but he is on 
food stamps. The waiver of the work requirement in California allows 
him to stay on food stamps an unlimited amount of time, and yet he 
doesn't have to work.
  My colleagues on the other side of the aisle as well as my colleagues 
in the Senate would voraciously defend the work requirement that is 
currently in law, 20 hours a week; they just don't want to defend it. 
This rule will allow them to try to supercede and intervene on behalf 
of requiring able-bodied adults to work.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to oppose this rule and oppose the 
underlying rule package.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to assure the gentleman from Texas, the now 
ranking member of the Agriculture Committee, this provision wasn't 
tucked away. In fact, we did a press release on it. We want everybody 
to know that we are going to hold this administration accountable if 
they go against what the Congress passed in the farm bill.
  The Congress didn't pass what the gentleman just said. In fact, my 
friend from Texas said in an interview last year that the Secretary of 
Agriculture doesn't have the authority to fix waivers. Maybe he has 
changed his mind.
  But here is the deal, and if the Secretary is watching, I want to be 
very, very clear: If, in fact, he or this administration go after poor 
people, if they try to take away their food, if they try to undercut 
their food security, we are coming after them. We are going to hold 
them accountable. The days of turning a blind eye to attacks on poor 
people are over, plain and simple.
  So this is not a provision that was tucked away. It was not a 
provision that was hidden. In fact, we did a press release on it. I 
want everybody to know about it.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close if my friend is.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to begin again by congratulating my 
good friend on assuming this very important position of responsibility 
as chairman of the House Rules Committee.
  It is particularly, I think, notable that he began his career of 
public service as a staff member on this very committee. So I think 
moving from staff member to ranking member and to chairman is something 
my friend should be very proud of and all of us in the House should be 
proud of as well. It says wonderful things about him.
  Now, while the rules package includes some very good ideas, I am 
going to urge all Members to oppose the rule. Some of the provisions, 
obviously, that I mentioned in my remarks Republicans certainly can 
support. It, unfortunately, however, includes too many measures that we 
cannot.
  The rule today removes important fiscal responsibility measures from 
the House rules, establishes a partisan Select Committee on the Climate 
Crisis, and grants the Speaker the power to intervene in a lawsuit over 
the legality of the ACA.
  It also makes in order an appropriations package, frankly, as an 
appropriator, I cannot support. The idea that the House would simply 
yield to the Senate and accept, without change, bills that the Senate 
has passed even though, frankly, there had been ongoing conferences and 
many changes have been agreed to is something that I think we should 
never do in this particular body.
  For these and the reasons I have discussed here, I urge a ``no'' vote 
on the rule.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' on the previous question, a ``no'' on 
the underlying measure, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to congratulate the new ranking member of the 
Rules Committee, Mr. Cole. It has been a pleasure to be down here 
debating with him here today.
  It is kind of strange to close debate. I kind of like it. I haven't 
been able to do it for a long time.
  We have worked side by side on this committee for many years. We have 
also worked in Congress on a lot of important issues that we both care 
about, like the Authorization for Use of Military Force. I appreciate 
his work on the Appropriations Committee. I think nobody knows more 
about the appropriations process or respects that process more than the 
gentleman from Oklahoma.
  Mr. Speaker, he is not only a colleague, but I consider him a friend. 
We don't agree on everything, but when we disagree, Congressman Cole is 
always very respectful. As I said before, he disagrees without being 
disagreeable, and all while still fighting for the ideas and issues 
that he cares deeply about. Frankly, in this day and age, that is a 
breath of fresh air, and I look forward to continuing to work with him 
on the committee in this Congress. I expect that we will be able to 
forge a relationship and, hopefully, be able to do things differently. 
That is my hope.
  Now, Mr. Speaker, these rules that are contained in the rules package 
are historic. There has never been a process like this one before, and 
there has never been a rules package like this before. It is 
unprecedented.
  Our Speaker, who I am proud to have just elected, tasked me with 
soliciting Members' feedback for this rules package months ago, and 
working with the members of our committee, we did just that.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank her again for the opportunity. I think her 
leadership on this has been extraordinary. She has empowered all of our 
Members to get involved, and she has led a collaborative process that 
gave all Members a voice.
  These changes incorporate ideas from every corner of our Caucus. As I 
said before, there are many ideas that have come from Republicans as 
well, and they come from Members that represent urban areas and 
suburban areas and rural areas.
  I am a progressive. I am a liberal. My colleagues on the other side 
know that. There are changes here that we have been fighting for for 
years.
  I know my Republican colleagues wouldn't have included some of these 
priorities, like healthcare and climate change, if they were drafting 
their own package, and that is okay. I get it.
  The American people have entrusted Democrats to run this institution, 
and so this is a rules package the majority should be proud to support; 
but I hope some of my friends in the minority will as well, because 
there are major reforms to the legislative process that even they agree 
should be made.
  There is a bipartisan agreement that we need to change how this place 
is run. This is our chance. On day one of this Congress, let's vote for 
this rule and the underlying rules package and for measures ending the 
Trump shutdown so we can get the American people who have been 
displaced back to work and get them a paycheck and give them the kind 
of Congress that they have demanded.
  Mr. Speaker, the reason why I also think this deserves bipartisan 
support is because we are trying, in good faith, to have a more 
accommodating Rules Committee, to have a more accommodating process.
  In the previous Congress, which unfortunately went down in history as 
the most closed Congress in American history, Members on both sides--
not just Democrats, but Republicans--were routinely shut out. And I 
know my colleague from Oklahoma didn't always approve of that tactic, 
but the bottom line is that was the fact, and I think that needs to 
change.
  We need to be willing on our side to allow ideas that we may have 
issues with, that we may disagree with. You don't always have to rig 
the rules in order to get the end product you want.
  So I believe in a fair fight. We believe that important ideas, even 
ideas we disagree with, ought to be brought to the floor. When we 
disagree with them, we are going to fight and try to defeat them on the 
floor. But out of respect and out of the belief that everybody in this 
Chamber matters, we need to change the way we have done business.
  So in that spirit, I ask the Members of this House, both Democrats 
and Republicans, to vote on this rule and support the underlying rules 
package.
  The material previously referred to by Mr. Cole is as follows:
 Amendment to H. Res. 5 Offered by Mr. Cole, Mr. Walden, and Mr. Brady 
                                of Texas
     SEC. . PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS.
       Not later than January 31, 2019, the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce and the Committee on Ways and Means shall report 
     to the House a joint resolution that is consistent with the 
     United States Constitution and relevant Supreme Court cases 
     that--
       (1) guarantees no American citizen can be denied health 
     insurance coverage as the result of a previous illness or 
     health status; and
       (2) guarantees no American citizen can be charged higher 
     premiums or cost sharing as the result of a previous illness 
     or health status, thus ensuring affordable health coverage 
     for those with pre-existing conditions.
 (The information contained herein was provided by Democratic Minority 
  on multiple occasions throughout the 115th Congress. Only political 
                     affiliation has been changed.)
        The Vote on the Previous Question: What It Really Means
       This vote, the vote on whether to order the previous 
     question on a special rule, is not merely a procedural vote. 
     A vote against ordering the previous question is a vote 
     against the Democratic majority agenda and a vote to allow 
     the opposition, at least for the moment, to offer an 
     alternative plan. It is a vote about what the House should be 
     debating.
       Mr. Clarence Cannon's Precedents of the House of 
     Representatives, (VI, 308-311) describes the vote on the 
     previous question on the rule as ``a motion to direct or 
     control the consideration of the subject before the House 
     being made by the Member in charge.'' To defeat the previous 
     question is to give the opposition a chance to decide the 
     subject before the House. Cannon cites the Speaker's ruling 
     of January 13, 1920, to the effect that ``the refusal of the 
     House to sustain the demand for the previous question passes 
     the control of the resolution to the opposition'' in order to 
     offer an amendment. On March 15, 1909, a member of the 
     majority party offered a rule resolution. The House defeated 
     the previous question and a member of the opposition rose to 
     a parliamentary inquiry, asking who was entitled to 
     recognition. Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 
     ``The previous question having been refused, the gentleman 
     from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, who had asked the gentleman to 
     yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to the first 
     recognition.''
       The Democrat majority may say ``the vote on the previous 
     question is simply a vote on whether to proceed to an 
     immediate vote on adopting the resolution . . . [and] has no 
     substantive legislative or policy implications whatsoever.'' 
     But that is not what they have always said. Listen to the 
     Republican Leadership Manual on the Legislative Process in 
     the United States House of Representatives, (6th edition, 
     page 135). Here's how the Republicans describe the previous 
     question vote in their own manual: ``Although it is generally 
     not possible to amend the rule because the majority Member 
     controlling the time will not yield for the purpose of 
     offering an amendment, the same result may be achieved by 
     voting down the previous question on the rule . . . When the 
     motion for the previous question is defeated, control of the 
     time passes to the Member who led the opposition to ordering 
     the previous question. That Member, because he then controls 
     the time, may offer an amendment to the rule, or yield for 
     the purpose of amendment.''
       In Deschler's Procedure in the U.S. House of 
     Representatives, the subchapter titled ``Amending Special 
     Rules'' states: ``a refusal to order the previous question on 
     such a rule [a special rule reported from the Committee on 
     Rules] opens the resolution to amendment and further 
     debate.'' (Chapter 21, section 21.2) Section 21.3 continues: 
     Upon rejection of the motion for the previous question on a 
     resolution reported from the Committee on Rules, control 
     shifts to the Member leading the opposition to the previous 
     question, who may offer a proper amendment or motion and who 
     controls the time for debate thereon.
       Clearly, the vote on the previous question on a rule does 
     have substantive policy implications. It is one of the only 
     available tools for those who oppose the Democratic 
     majority's agenda and allows those with alternative views the 
     opportunity to offer an alternative plan.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and I 
move the previous question on the resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on ordering the previous 
question.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I offer a motion to commit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to commit.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Mr. Cole moves that the resolution (H. Res. 5) be committed 
     to a select committee composed of the Majority Leader and the 
     Minority Leader with instructions to report back the same to 
     the House forthwith with only an amendment added at the end 
     providing for the consideration of H. Res. 11, introduced by 
     Mr. McCarthy of California.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to commit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to commit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.


Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution and ask for 
its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 3
       Resolved, That a committee of two Members be appointed by 
     the Speaker on the part of the House of Representatives to 
     join with a committee on the part of the Senate to notify the 
     President of the United States that a quorum of each House 
     has assembled and Congress is ready to receive any 
     communication that he may be pleased to make.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          


Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, I appreciate the comments of the 
distinguished senior Senator from Texas. I am glad to know that at 
least one person read my article in the Washington Post this morning, 
and I appreciate his mentioning it.
  I think we should be blunt about this. There is never an excuse for a 
shutdown of the federal government. There
is never an excuse for even a partial shutdown of the federal 
government. Government shutdowns should be as off limits in bargaining 
over the budget, for example, as chemical weapons are in warfare.
  Shutting down the government is not a demonstration of skill or 
courage; it is a demonstration of incompetence, of a failure by 
negotiators. It is embarrassing. And the American people ought to hold 
us accountable for that because we are sent here to get a result. It 
takes no particular skill or courage to take a position on an issue. If 
all one wants to do is take a position, you don't have to go through 
all the trouble of being elected to the U.S. Senate; you could just 
stay home and get a soap box, or you could get a radio show or a TV 
show. There are plenty of ways to take a position in this country. The 
real skill or courage belongs to those who first take their principled 
positions and then work together to get a result. That is what we do 
here day in and day out.
  The senior Senator from Texas gave some examples of that. One of my 
favorite examples is what happened this past fall. There we were--if 
you watch television--in the midst of the Kavanaugh nomination hearing, 
about which there were enormous differences of opinion--producing, I 
might add, a historic speech by the Senator from Maine toward the end 
of it.
  One might have thought, well, all they are doing in Washington, DC, 
is just throwing mud at each other or at Judge Kavanaugh. Well, that 
was one side of the Capitol. I suggest you look at what happens here as 
a split-screen television. That was on one side of the Capitol in the 
fall, but look at what was happening on the other side.
  Seventy-two U.S. Senators--about half of them Democrat, half of them 
Republican--were working together on a bill to address, as the senior 
Senator from Texas mentioned, the single biggest public health crisis 
in this country, the opioid problem. We passed that, and it became law. 
That was done in October on one side of the screen.
  We also passed a bill--Senator Hatch was a leader in that, and I 
worked on it as well--a once-in-a-generation change in the copyright 
laws, which helps make sure songwriters are paid fairly. Maybe that is 
not important to you; it is to thousands of songwriters in Nashville 
and Memphis and maybe in Los Angeles and New York and around the 
country. That happened in October.
  Also in the fall, the Senate passed Appropriations bills--75 percent 
of the money for funding the federal government, which included record 
funding for the fourth consecutive year for biomedical research, record 
funding for the fourth consecutive year for our National Laboratories, 
and record funding for the fourth consecutive year for supercomputing.
  A lot of other things were done this fall. That is the split-screen 
television.
  So we are not defined, really, by the fights we have or by the 
positions we take; we are defined and admired or not admired by whether 
we have the courage and the skill to come to a result.
  Let me tell my colleagues a story that I told in that piece that was 
printed in the Washington Post today. It comes from the summer of 2015 
and might offer a suggestion for how to resolve this government 
shutdown. There is no excuse for having it, but we are stuck in one, 
and we need to get out of it.
  In the summer of 2015, President Obama invited Senator Patty Murray, 
the Democratic Senator from Washington State, and me down to the White 
House for a meeting with him in the Oval Office. I am chairman of the 
Senate's Education Committee, and Senator Murray is the ranking 
Democratic member. What the President wanted to talk about was our work 
in Congress on trying to fix the law called No Child Left Behind.
  If you think resolving an impasse on border security is difficult, 
try dealing with K-12 education policy. Try setting Federal policy for 
100,000 public schools in this country. It is like 100,000 spectators 
at a University of Tennessee football game, all of whom are sure they 
are expert coaches and know exactly what to call on the next play. They 
all had a little football when they were kids, and so they know what 
play to call. All of us have a little education, and so we know how to 
fix the schools. Add to that the opinion of Governors, the opinion of 
teachers unions, the issues of federalism, of civil rights, of 
overtesting, and common core. And we had a divided government in 2015--
a Democratic President, Barack Obama, and a Republican-majority 
Congress. It was in that environment that we were trying to fix No 
Child Left Behind.
  The President asked Senator Murray and me to come meet with him 
privately in the Oval Office. On that day, the President said to me and 
to Senator Murray that there were three things he wanted in the 
legislation before he could sign it. I told the President that if he 
would not oppose the bill as it made its way through the Congress, 
those three things would be in the final bill or I wouldn't bring it to 
him.
  On December 10, 2015, President Obama signed that bill. It is called 
the Every Student Succeeds Act. He called it a Christmas miracle even 
though there were plenty of provisions in it he didn't agree with. The 
three things he mentioned were included--I promised him that--but there 
were plenty of other things he did not agree with. ``You kept your 
word,'' he told me. ``You did too,'' I said to the President.
  That is how you get a result when you have divided government and 
strongly held opinions.
  Why, as a Republican, did I agree to a Democratic President's 
requests with which I did not concur? Because I have read the U.S. 
Constitution. That is why. And I understand that if the President does 
not sign a bill, it does not become a law. On the other hand, I knew 
that the entire law was historic in what it was doing. The Wall Street 
Journal said that it was the greatest devolution of power from 
Washington, DC, to the States in a quarter of a century. It repealed 
the common core mandate, dismantled the national school board, and 
restored local control of schools.
  We worked on it for a long time. We listened to each other. We made a 
lot of changes. We came up with a result that 85 Members of the U.S. 
Senate eventually were able to vote for and that the National Governors 
Association and both of the major teachers unions could support. The 
result will be that Federal education policy on K-12 will be stable for 
years to come for the teachers in those 100,000 public schools and the 
school superintendents and the parents. Nobody even suggested in all of 
those negotiations shutting down the government to get his or her way. 
We all knew we were elected to get a result if we could.
  Let me tell you another short story. The next year, we were working 
on something called 21st Century Cures. Same President--Obama. Same 
Congress--Republican. Very complicated issues. How do you get 
biomedical research funded and through the Food and Drug Administration 
in a way that people approve of and would agree to? That is much more 
complicated than you would expect. I worked with President Obama, who 
wanted precision medicine. That was in there. Vice President Biden 
wanted a cancer moonshot. His son had died from cancer the previous 
year. That was in there. Senator McConnell, the majority leader, said 
he wanted something on regenerative medicine. That was in there. 
Speaker Ryan said he wouldn't approve it unless it had funding in a 
particular way, so we did it that way. Still we were having a hard time 
with it. I remember calling Vice President Biden at one point late in 
the year of 2016 and saying: Joe, I am standing here, and I have this 
all tied up with a ribbon around it. It had all of what I just 
described in there--precision medicine, cancer moonshot, funding for 
biomedical research, and regenerative medicine. I said: I feel like the 
butler standing outside the door of the Oval Office with an order on a 
silver platter, and no one will open the door. The Vice President said: 
If you want to feel like a butler, try being the Vice President.
  Well, he went to work, and that bill was signed in December of 2016. 
Senator McConnell said that it was the most important legislation of 
the Congress. That wasn't because I took a position, and President 
Obama took a position, and the Vice President took a position. It was 
because we worked together, understanding that we had to agree to get a 
result.
  So what is the lesson for today? First, Democrats should recognize, 
as I
did with President Obama in 2015 on fixing No Child Left Behind and in 
2016 on 21st Century Cures and on other issues, that when a President 
elected by the people of the United States--whatever you may think of 
him--has a legitimate objective, you should bend over backward to try 
to meet that objective if you want a result.
  As for the President, in this case President Trump, I would suggest 
that he should be as specific and reliable as President Obama was in 
2015 when he told me he needed three things in order to sign a bill. 
When Congress passed a bill with those three things in it, even though 
it included some other things the President didn't like, he signed the 
law.
  Since President Trump has made it clear that he will not sign any 
legislation to reopen the Federal Government without some increase in 
funding for border security, here are three options for where we could 
go from here to get out of this hole we have dug for ourselves.
  No. 1, go small. Give the President the $1.6 billion he asked for in 
this year's budget request, which the bipartisan Senate Appropriations 
Committee, which the Senator from Maine and I serve, approved. Throw in 
another $1 billion to improve border security at ports of entry, which 
everyone agrees we need.
  Even better, go bigger. Pass the bill that 54 Senators--I believe we 
are talking about the Collins-King bill--voted on last February, which 
combined a solution for children brought to the United States 
illegally, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or DACA. The 
President said he was for that. Then add $25 billion in appropriated 
funding for border security over 10 years. That is not $5 billion or 
$1.6 billion or $3 billion; that is $25 billion appropriated for border 
security, which 46 Democrats voted for last February. The bill failed 
only because of last-minute White House opposition.
  Even better, go really big. Begin this new Congress by creating a 
legal immigration system that secures our borders and defines the 
status of those already here. In 2013, 68 U.S. Senators, including all 
54 Democrats, voted for such a bill, but the House refused to take it 
up. That bill, which all 54 Democrats voted for, included over $40 
billion and many other provisions to secure our borders.
  So there are three ways to turn this lemon into lemonade, so to 
speak--three ways to dig out of this hole we have dug for ourselves. 
Instead of saying that once we dig ourselves a hole, we should keep 
digging forever, climb out of it in a graceful way by solving a big 
problem.
  Someone asked me in the hall recently: Well, why would President 
Trump agree to such a thing?
  Why would he not agree to such a thing? I have said to the President 
on more than one occasion that when touring the White House, you can 
look at the portraits of the Presidents. You see President Nixon, and 
what do you think? Nixon and China. You see President Reagan, and what 
do you think? Reagan and the Soviet Union. But Nixon was not always for 
a relationship with Communist China; he was opposed to it. Reagan was 
the biggest critic of the Soviet Union in our country. Yet the two of 
them took those credentials, and they tackled a big problem, and they 
made a historic contribution to this country.
  I believe President Trump could and should do the same thing. We 
could go small or we could go a little bigger, and pass the Collins-
King bill--or something close to it--that we voted for. I would like to 
see the President say: OK, we have a new Congress; we have divided 
government. I am the President who can actually make this happen. I 
believe the American people would trust me if I said that we were 
creating a comprehensive legal immigration system.
  Get us unstuck from this partial government shutdown, and go real big 
on immigration. That could be President Trump's Nixon-to-China, Reagan-
to-the-Berlin-Wall moment in history.
  I thank the Presiding Officer.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Portman). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, 


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, the first order of business for the 
116th Congress is to finish the business of the 115th Congress, just 
concluded. As we all know, one of the most important responsibilities 
of Congress is to fund the vital services provided by our government 
and in so doing provide paychecks to the hard-working public servants 
who keep the cogs of government turning.
  While, as the distinguished Senator from Vermont recognized, we were 
successful in a bipartisan way to pass 75 percent of those funding 
bills, we know the remaining 25 percent is being held hostage over the 
issue of border security. That equates to hundreds of thousands of 
Federal workers and their families who don't know how or if they can 
make their rent this month or buy groceries or keep the lights on. They 
simply don't know when that next paycheck will be deposited in their 
bank account or how long the standoff will last. That is unfair, and it 
is unacceptable collateral damage.
  It is our collective responsibility to fund the remaining seven 
Departments and Agencies and to do so soon. Unfortunately, over the 
holidays, not much progress seems to have been made. Really, what it 
amounts to is a debate over semantics: Is it a fence? Is it a wall? Is 
it border security? What is it? The semantic debate has led us to a 
partial government shutdown, now 13 days in and without a clear end in 
sight. We know Washington, DC, where the blame game is a world-class 
sport, where everybody is on the battlefield pointing fingers of blame 
any way they can.
  Later, the House Democrats will consider a wholly unserious proposal 
that funds the remaining portions of government without a significant 
investment in border security. I believe that is a nonstarter. They 
know it, and we know it. The President won't sign it, and so the 
majority leader has said it will not be considered here in the Senate.
  My constituents, as well as the Presiding Officer's constituents in 
Maine and Americans living in Tennessee, are not interested in show 
votes; they want real border security--something our Democratic 
colleagues used to support and have voted for time and again. But the 
debate has somehow shifted from ``How do we solve this problem?'' to 
``Who is going to win?'' No longer is it a search for solutions; it is 
about embarrassing your political opponent and scoring points.
  Yesterday on CNN, Alexandra Pelosi, the daughter of incoming Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi, made a comment about her mother's leadership style. She 
said: ``She'll cut your head off and you don't even know that you are 
bleeding.'' Kind of shocking comments coming from a daughter. It is not 
something I necessarily would consider a compliment, but the left 
appears to believe that it is a commendable trait, and they are eager 
to hand her the Speaker's gavel.
  It seems the desire to cultivate a reputation for ruthlessness--win 
at all costs--has replaced an appetite to actually get things done. 
Rather than working with those with whom we occasionally disagree, 
Members are resorting to guerilla warfare--almost literally the law of 
the jungle. This practice is not only unproductive, it prevents us from 
securing the border and getting those workers impacted by this partial 
shutdown back to work.
  Of course we know what it is going to take. It is going to take a 
negotiated agreement between the parties--between the Houses of 
Congress and the President. It is a challenging task, but it is not 
impossible. In fact, we have done it often.
  My friends, contrary to what you have seen in the news or may read on 
social media, bipartisanship is not an antiquated or quaint idea, and 
you don't have to look very far back to see how we have been able to 
make bipartisanship work for the benefit of the American people. The 
115th Congress was marked by major bipartisan accomplishments.
  Just 2 weeks ago, the President signed legislation to overhaul our 
criminal justice system. This bill was a result of a lot of hard work 
and tough negotiations between Democrats and Republicans on both ends 
of the Capitol, as well as the leadership at the White House. 
Bipartisan work has allowed us to pass bills to tackle the substance 
abuse epidemic in this country, which claimed more than 70,000 lives 
last year alone. It has allowed us to fight human trafficking together 
and to reduce gun violence and other violent crime. Together, we have 
supported America's military and delivered reforms to veterans' 
benefits and provided a pay raise to our troops. We reauthorized the 
Federal Aviation Administration, modernizing airport security for the 
air-traveling public. We eliminated the gag clause to ensure drug price 
transparency. Those are just a few of the things we have done together 
in a bipartisan way.
  Working with those you disagree with isn't something to be ashamed 
of--it is actually how we turn good ideas into good laws and in so 
doing, govern.
  I am glad to see him on the floor because I was going to mention the 
great example from our friend from Tennessee, Senator Alexander, who 
wrote an op-ed in the Washington Post today about the importance of 
finding common ground. He gave an object lesson of how working together 
on very potentially polarizing legislation can be accomplished in a way 
that produces a result from which the American people benefit. Of 
course, that was a lesson he said he learned from negotiating with 
President Obama while working on the Every Student Succeeds Act.
  He wrote:
       Why, as a Republican, did I agree to a Democratic 
     president's request with which I did not concur? Because I 
     have read the Constitution, and I understand that if the 
     President doesn't sign legislation, it does not become law.
  Well, regardless of which party controls the Senate or the House or 
occupies the White House, that remains a constant. It is the distilled 
essence of our constitutional system. Democrats in the House should 
take our colleague's wise words to heart and return to the negotiating 
table with the President.
  I believe there are a lot more productive ways to spend our time in 
Congress than ruthlessly attempting to annihilate our political 
opponents--people we disagree with. We can, we have, and we should 
strive to do better. So it is time to wash off the war paint. We know 
how to solve problems when we want to, and as we begin a new Congress, 
I urge all of our colleagues, both Republican and Democratic, to stop 
trying to score political points and start being productive and in so 
doing, govern.
  Madam President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Tennessee.
                          


Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today is a little like opening day here 
in the U.S. Senate. We have seen some of our colleagues--incumbents who 
were already elected--walk down this aisle, to be sworn in, after 
winning 6-year terms. We have also seen some new Members come in from 
all around the country who are from both parties. Just like every 
opening day, there is a certain sense of optimism in the air. I just 
went to a number of receptions for Democrats and Republicans alike, and 
people are talking about the need for us to work together.
  We are also facing a new reality, and that is we have divided 
government now. Before, we had a Republican House and Senate and a 
Republican President. Now we have a Democratic-led House to go along 
with the Republican Senate and a Republican White House. We haven't had 
a divided government for a little while; yet our jobs don't change at 
all as our job is to figure out how to work together to get things 
done. Frankly, here in the U.S. Senate, we need 60 votes for almost 
anything, which requires a supermajority, which has always been the 
case. Really, there has been only one way to accomplish things around 
here on behalf of the people we represent, which has been to figure out 
how to find that common ground. It is time to get back to doing that on 
some of these big issues. I would suggest to you that on issues like, 
maybe, healthcare and immigration, we have had a gridlock situation, 
where we just can't seem to figure out even how to get started.
  I will say that in 2018, the year that just passed, we did make 
progress in some areas, and it is worth reflecting on that and talking 
about how that happened, because that would be the model for the 
future.
  We made progress on combating the opioid epidemic that has gripped 
this country, and it is the worst public health crisis we have in this 
country now. In October, President Trump signed opioid legislation into 
law that contains a number of different ways to push back against this 
issue. In my home State of Ohio, it is the No. 1 cause of death now. 
Nationally, it is the No. 1 cause of death for those under age 50. We 
had over 70,000 people die in this country last year alone from opioid 
overdoses. So the President signed legislation into law that will help.
  One piece of legislation is called the STOP Act. It is something that 
we worked on for 3 years. In fact, it came out of some work that we did 
on the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. I and the Presiding 
Officer here today are on the committee, and we are able to work 
together--Republicans and Democrats alike--and do deep investigations 
into issues that then result in good legislation. In this case, we 
found out that more people are dying of fentanyl overdoses--the most 
deadly of all of the drugs now--of synthetic opioids than of any other 
drug.
  We found out that it comes in through the U.S. mail system, 
primarily, and from China. We are really doing virtually nothing to 
provide the screening to try to keep some of this poison out of our 
communities. So that is now in place. Just a couple of weeks ago, I 
also met with the Postmaster General and with the head of Customs and 
Border Protection--the two individuals who are the most responsible for 
its implementation--to talk about how we can more quickly implement 
that legislation to save lives.
  The bill also includes some other legislation that we worked on for 
years. One is to remove an arbitrary cap on the ability of people to 
get treatment. Some treatment centers were capped at 16 beds just 
because they took Medicaid funding. That made no sense. There are some 
good treatment centers out there that were turning people away. These 
people are addicted. If they don't get into treatment, they are going 
to continue to have their addictions and continue to cause crimes and 
continue to break up families and cause all kinds of problems for our 
criminal justice system. So that is a
positive part of what has happened here.
  We also passed legislation in that package to help care for pregnant 
and postpartum women who are addicted and for their children and for 
babies who are born with this neonatal abstinence syndrome--dependent 
on drugs, essentially--and to help get them through life.
  Last year, we passed important legislation that is already having an 
enormous impact to push back on another topic that we studied in the 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which I talked about earlier. 
That is legislation that deals with the trafficking of women and 
children. So much of that has moved online. Our research indicates that 
most of it was happening, actually, on one website, called backpage. We 
wrote legislation that enabled the victims to go after some of these 
websites if they had been exploited but also to allow prosecutors, 
including the prosecutors in your States and your cities and your 
counties, to go after some of these groups online that were knowingly 
trafficking women and children.
  As a result of that, we have made huge progress. It took 3 years of 
investigation and legislating to get there, but that legislation now, 
in its having become law, according to the National Center for Missing 
and Exploited Children, has resulted in substantial decreases in the 
online sex trafficking of women and children. Lives have been saved. 
Those who were not able to pursue God's purpose in life are now able to 
because no longer are they being trafficked.
  In addition, the permanent subcommittee's report helped the 
Department of Justice indict this worst actor in the online trafficking 
arena, backpage, as well as its executives. We were able to shut down 
the website altogether because of that. So we have made progress.
  The year 2018 was also the first year of the new Tax Code that has 
made American workers and American companies far more competitive. It 
is responsible, more than any other thing, for the fact that we not 
only have more jobs in this country and historically low unemployment 
numbers now but also higher wages. Over the past few months, we have 
seen where we have had, for the first time, really, in a decade and a 
half, rising wages relative to inflation so that people who are working 
hard and playing by the rules are feeling that they are getting ahead 
again. A couple of months ago, there was a 3-percent increase from the 
previous year. That is something you want to see happen continually, 
and this tax reform, because it encourages investment in jobs and 
expansion, is having that impact.
  The year 2018 was also the year we provided more funding for our 
brave men and women in uniform who are out there protecting us every 
day. Our military was not able to do its job because we didn't have 
adequate resources. We were able to do that in 2018 on a bipartisan 
basis.
  So there have been some examples of bipartisanship that have made a 
big difference. Again, we should look at those and determine what 
happened there. Why were we stuck on one issue; yet, on others, we were 
able to make progress? I would suggest to you that there are four or 
five other issues that are at the point at which they have enough 
bipartisan support that we should be able to get them done this year.
  I know people say: Well, we are getting into the 2020 election. 
Folks, it is only 2019. We are only a couple of days into it. Let's not 
talk about the 2020 election. Let's not focus on what happens on the 
talk shows and what happens on the op-ed pages and what happens in 
terms of the red meat speeches being thrown out from both sides. 
Instead, let's focus on what we can do this year, in 2019--there is no 
election this year--to actually make progress on some of these issues. 
Some of them are ones that affect all of our constituents in very 
fundamental ways. Others, perhaps, are not as significant.
  Right now, we have an opportunity to break this gridlock and to stop 
the partial government shutdown and to also make some reforms in the 
immigration system as we do it.
  The appropriations process for funding our Federal Government is 
stuck right now. There are 7 bills out of 12 that have not been passed. 
Of those seven, six have been agreed to by this body and the other 
body. Republicans and Democrats alike have voted for them, so we should 
get them done.
  As we try to figure out a way forward, we should also be sure that we 
do two things: Stop the partial government shutdown--which makes no 
sense, particularly for taxpayers, which I will explain in a second--
and strengthen our border.
  Of course we should strengthen the border. There are a lot of bad 
things happening on the border. One, of course, is people coming across 
illegally. That is something none of us should want to see. We want to 
see a legal process. I think it is true that pretty much everybody in 
this Chamber understands we have to have a secure border, and there is 
not a secure border now. Some of it requires new fencing. Some of it 
requires other kinds of barriers. Some of it requires more technology 
and more people to respond when somebody breaches a fence or a wall. We 
all know that. We know there has to be more funding provided there. We 
should be able to do that.
  At the same time, we should also realize that with regard to 
government shutdowns, as I said earlier, they really don't accomplish 
much because we always go back and repay the workers who have not been 
working on behalf of all of us. In these shutdowns, taxpayers always 
end up having to pay more, not less.
  With regard to the shutdown right now, I don't think it is political 
leverage in particular because I think that some of those who are more 
partisan on the other side of the aisle are happy to have it continue, 
thinking it is good for them politically. Let's take the politics out 
of it. Let's stop shutdowns altogether.
  There is legislation that has been introduced called End Government 
Shutdowns. Actually, when the Presiding Officer was in the House of 
Representatives, he was one of the leaders on that and still supports 
this idea. The notion is, if you don't finish an appropriations bill or 
if a continuing resolution expires--which is short-term, temporary 
funding instead of an appropriations bill--instead of having a 
shutdown, what you do is continue spending from the previous year. Then 
slowly, over time--1 percent after 120 days, another 1 percent after 90 
days, and so on--you reduce that funding to give the Appropriations 
Committee around here and our leadership some incentive to come to the 
table and resolve the issues.
  I just don't think shutdowns work. I have never quite understood it. 
Again, from a taxpayer's perspective, I don't think it makes much 
sense.
  We are going to reintroduce the End Government Shutdowns bill again 
next week. It has been bipartisan in the past. I hope it will be 
bipartisan next week when we reintroduce it. Let's get that done. At 
the same time, let's figure out ways to have more security at our 
borders. Everybody agrees with that. I hope we can find a way to get to 
some common ground.
  When we got into this issue last year, along with Senators Thune and 
Moran, I introduced legislation that would provide $25 billion over a 
5-year period to support this plan for a more secure border, including 
the plan from the Trump administration, while at the same time 
providing legal certainty to those young people who came to the United 
States illegally as children through no fault of their own. Some have 
called these children, who are now young people, part of the DACA 
Program. You have heard that word, D-A-C-A, DACA. These are people who 
came here as kids without going through the proper channels. They 
shouldn't be punished for that, so let's codify the administrative 
action that has been taken, and let's combine that with the funding. To 
me, that seems to be one where Republicans and Democrats could each 
find some opportunity for a victory. The win-win would then allow us to 
reopen the government and to move ahead with broader immigration 
reform, having had a little bit of success on at least one small part 
of the immigration issues we face. I think this is an example where, if 
both sides can give a little, we won't have a shutdown anymore, and we 
can move ahead on some other legislation.
  I want to talk about some of those other priorities that we could 
easily
address this year because they are bipartisan. In some cases, they had 
already been worked on for years, and in other cases, for months. 
Frankly, just before we broke for the holidays, we came close to 
passing some of those.
  One is for us to reform the tax collection agency, the IRS. Everybody 
should want to do this because, once again, the IRS is not serving 
taxpayers as they should. I say ``once again'' because about 20 years 
ago, Congress took on this task and formed a commission. Actually, I 
was co-chair of it with Senator Bob Kerrey. We passed legislation to 
improve the customer service of the IRS but also to give them more 
money for technology so they could do a better job with regard to 
enforcing the tax laws.
  At that time, the IRS was in really tough shape. They weren't 
answering the phone. When they did, they weren't providing right 
information. The Agency suffered from wasteful spending, from low 
workforce morale, and from a lack of leadership and strategic 
direction. Guess what. That is happening again--all of those things.
  We now have a new Commissioner who has just been confirmed. I am very 
hopeful he will make a difference there, but he needs our help 
legislatively--give him some tools to use. This new Commissioner, along 
with his new team, is eager to have those reforms. They think it is a 
prime opportunity to update what happens at the IRS and to be sure it 
is serving taxpayers better.
  My hope is that calls will begin to be answered again and that we 
will get correct answers when we call to find an answer to a tax law 
question. We have now simplified the tax law in certain ways. We have 
also made it more complicated in other ways with this new tax reform 
legislation, so there are a lot of questions out there. Our legislation 
would be very helpful.
  By the way, 20 years ago, we decided to include an independent appeal 
of an IRS decision. It is very important. To me, it is sort of a 
fundamental right. If the IRS is saying you are wrong about something, 
you should have the ability to appeal it and to have an independent 
forum.
  Over the last 10 years or so, the IRS has kind of moved away from 
that. The appeals have declined because the IRS has chosen to settle a 
lot of cases in tax court, costing taxpayers a lot more money. Our 
legislation, which has been bipartisan, will help to create a new, 
independent appeals process. The Commissioner supports that. It is a 
way to ensure we have, frankly, more faith and confidence in the IRS, 
having that independent appeal.
  We also give more structure to what is called the IRS Oversight 
Board. This was established 20 years ago. It worked for a while. It 
hasn't worked for the past 10 years. It is basically not in existence 
anymore. So we said: Let's establish this very simply so that it 
focuses on long-term, strategic goals for the Agency, so it doesn't 
again fall back into the situation it is in now, with bad technology, 
bad customer service, and so on, and let's set up this oversight board 
in the right way.
  Senator Ben Cardin and I have introduced legislation called the 
Protecting Taxpayers Act. We almost got it done at the end of the year 
last year, just a few weeks ago. My hope is that we can get this 
legislation up and get it passed very, very quickly. We have already 
had hearings on it in the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Taxation and 
IRS Oversight, which I chair. My hope is that we can get that to a 
final vote very soon.
  Another opportunity we have is to expand retirement savings. That is 
something which is very important to a lot of my constituents who are 
finding themselves in a situation where they thought they had saved 
enough, but they hadn't. People are living longer, healthier lives, and 
unfortunately the amount they have saved in their IRA or their 401(k) 
or what they have in their pension plan is not enough for them to have 
a secure retirement.
  We have done this in the past. Again, we have worked together in a 
bipartisan way over the years to try to increase what people can save 
for their own retirement. In fact, Senator Cardin, a Democrat from 
Maryland, and I have worked together in a bipartisan way going back a 
couple of decades. We had three different bills that expanded how much 
you could put away in a 401(k) or an IRA and have catchup contributions 
if you are over 50 and changing the rules to make it easier for small 
businesses to provide plans. Unfortunately, it is time to do that again 
so that people can set more aside for their golden years and have more 
peace of mind in retirement.
  The numbers are pretty interesting. After our three pieces of 
legislation back in 1997, 2001, and 2006, we did see more savings. In 
fact, nationwide, growth of 401(k)s and other defined contribution plan 
savings, IRA savings, expanded pretty dramatically. There has been a 
179-percent increase in 401(k)s in the last 17, 18 years and a 254-
percent increase in IRAs. So we have shown that by passing legislation 
that provides more opportunity for people to save for their own 
retirement, more money is being put in.
  However, having had those successes in moving retirement savings from 
about $11 trillion in 2001 to $28 trillion today, there is still a lot 
more to be done. My generation, the baby boom generation, just isn't 
saving enough for their retirement, and the same is true with the 
succeeding generation. Young people aren't putting enough aside, and we 
need to give them that incentive to do more because, frankly, that is a 
much more effective way for us to improve their chances of having a 
secure retirement, not depending solely on Social Security, and also to 
help our economy, because more savings is a good thing for our private 
sector economy.
  Even today, only just over half of the employees who work in private 
companies have a company plan. I think they should all have one. We 
should make it so easy that every company says: You know what, you come 
work for me, and I am going to provide you with a 401(k).
  Maybe it is a simple plan, which is something we want to work on to 
try to create a new, very simple plan for small businesses because a 
lot of small businesses don't have the professionals, the H.R. people--
the human resources people--to do it. That is part of what we have in 
our legislation. We need to do more to help part-time workers in 
particular. We need to do more to ensure that the smallest businesses 
have an opportunity to have savings plans.
  Before the end of last year, just a couple of weeks ago, we 
introduced this legislation. It is called Portman-Cardin 2.0--the 
Retirement Security & Savings Act. It has more than 50 provisions. It 
is a culmination of many years of work with various stakeholders to 
come up with stuff that makes sense.
  Among other things, it establishes new automatic enrollment safe 
harbors. It does raise the catchup contribution limits. It allows 
individuals to make additional catchup contributions after age 60. It 
would also expand the saver's credit for low-income families and make 
that refundable. To ensure that Americans don't outlive their savings, 
the bill exempts any savers with less than $100,000 in aggregate 
savings from the currently required minimum distributions from their 
401(k) or IRA. Right now, at age 70\1/2\, you have to start taking it 
out. For many people who are working into their seventies, this makes 
no sense at all. You have worked your whole life. You are still working 
into your seventies, as my dad was, and you are told: You have to start 
taking money from your retirement account, or we are going to penalize 
you. Our legislation says that if you have less than $100,000 in 
savings, you shouldn't be subject to the minimum requirements at all. 
For others, we raised it from 70\1/2\ up to 75 years old over time to 
ensure that those who are in their seventies don't start depleting 
their retirement accounts when they may well need them, as they are, 
again, living longer and longer lives.
  Let's continue our work to focus on helping people save for their own 
retirement. That is something we can do on a bipartisan basis.
  We also have a little issue that is growing dramatically with regard 
to defined retirement plans, defined benefit plans--not defined 
contribution plans, like the 401(k)--and specifically what are called 
multiemployer plans. You may have heard about this, but if you haven't, 
you probably will if we don't do something because it looks like, by 
the year 2025, the Federal insurance program called the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation will go
insolvent because of these plans not being properly funded.
  Some of these plans are very big. There are about 60,000 people in 
the State of Ohio who are in one of these plans, including the Central 
States plan. If it goes belly-up, it will result in the PBGC--the 
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation--going belly-up. That insolvency 
would then create problems for all plans, including single-employer 
plans, not just these multiemployer plans we are talking about.
  We need a bipartisan solution for that. We came close to it last 
year. We had a joint select committee formed to look at it. Again, that 
should be bipartisan--really, nonpartisan. If we don't solve this 
problem, it is going to have a big impact on our economy because not 
only does the Federal guaranty program go bankrupt, but a lot of 
businesses that rely on that are going to go bankrupt as well.
  Finally, to continue our progress in combating the opioid epidemic, 
which we talked about earlier, we need to take the next step. There is 
new legislation called the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act 
2.0, referring to the same legislation, the Comprehensive Addiction and 
Recovery Act, CARA, which was passed here in this body 2\1/2\ years 
ago. That legislation is to do more in terms of treatment, recovery, 
and specifically prevention.
  It also deals with this issue that we don't have effective drug-
monitoring programs back in our States. Often, if someone gets a 
prescription for opioids, they wouldn't know whether that person 
already had that prescription. They also don't know if somebody has 
crossed the State line. In my State of Ohio, people might cross over to 
Michigan or Indiana or Kentucky or West Virginia, as they do--all 
States that have opioid problems, as well--and get a prescription 
filled there, and we in Ohio don't know it is a doubling up of 
prescriptions when they go to a pharmacy in Ohio. We need to work 
better to ensure that we have an interstate system. That is in this 
legislation.
  We also have a limitation on prescriptions for acute pain. This is 
based on the Centers for Disease Control--the CDC--guidelines. They 
tell you that after 3 days of taking opioids for acute pain, it is far 
more likely that you are going to become addicted to pain medication. 
Obviously, this is a huge problem that we want to stop. So much of this 
opioid addiction--even the fentanyl addiction we have now, the 
synthetic opioids coming in--started with prescription drugs. It often 
started with legally prescribed prescription drugs.
  Again, this says that for those who are prescribed drugs after a 
surgery, let's say for acute pain--not chronic pain, not cancer, but 
acute pain--there should be a 3-day limit. This is based on CDC 
research that has been done.
  It is also based on the research being done by the FDA about how pain 
medication works. They say opioid medication may be helpful for 
somebody that has a serious pain issue after an operation, say, acute 
pain. But after the first couple of days, it is much more likely to be 
handled through something less dangerous, like ibuprofen. So there is 
not a need to have a continual use of opioids. Getting a 3-day national 
limit in place alone would have a huge impact on overdoses going 
forward, because it starts with an addiction and leads to the 
overdoses. For over 70,000 Americans last year, this led to not just an 
overdose but to overdose deaths--the No. 1 cause of death among people 
under 50 in our country today. It also requires hospitals and doctors 
to not just use these prescription drug monitoring programs but to 
share that data to prevent people from cheating the system and getting 
prescription drugs they shouldn't be getting.
  Around the holidays, the New York Times did an interesting three-part 
study on the issue of addiction. I found it very helpful and commend it 
to you. It is about the science of addiction and some simple 
information about how these drugs essentially hijack your brain. This 
is a 2-page foldout that was in the New York Times just before 
Christmas. It goes through the various stages--from the gateway to 
opioids we talked about earlier, often from prescription drugs, 
tolerance and withdrawal symptoms, addiction, treatment, relapse, and 
recovery. If you haven't seen it, you can find it online. I would 
recommend it. It is in very simple language--talking to addicts, 
talking to experts, and giving people a simple sense of what happens 
here and what we can do to address it.
  What we can do is much better on the prevention side--again, more 
information out there on understanding how dangerous these drugs are, 
but, second, getting people who are already addicted into treatment. 
This is in everyone's interest, including our law enforcement 
officials, who are tired of arresting the same people again and again 
for the same crimes, usually property crimes associated with paying for 
their habit--the No. 1 cause of crime in my State of Ohio. But it is 
also incredibly important for our families who are being broken apart 
and for so many of our healthcare systems, emergency rooms, and 
neonatal units in hospitals which are overwhelmed with these babies 
with neonatal abstinence syndrome. There is a huge cost and impact of 
that on individuals, on families, and on taxpayers.
  It is something that is affecting employers in big ways now. When I 
look at the numbers in terms of what is happening in our economy, the 
biggest issue in terms of workforce is people who are not in the 
workforce at all anymore. That is at historically high levels. They 
aren't even applying for jobs. Among men, it is probably at historic 
levels. On men and women combined, you would have to go back to the 
late 1970s to see such low levels of participation in the workforce, 
when we had double-digit unemployment, double-digit interest rates, and 
double-digit inflation. We don't want that again. When you look at why 
these people aren't working, it is dramatic how many of these people 
are addicted, and opioids is driving these numbers at a time when there 
should be many more people engaging in the workforce. The jobs are 
there. The jobs are open and not being filled. Often, people can't pass 
the drug test if they are looking, because of their opioid addiction. 
So it is affecting us in every way, including our economy and 
workforce.
  To address these issues, this CARA 2.0 legislation will help, as will 
the legislation we passed last year with regard to the synthetic 
opioids and with regard to providing more treatment for people. If we 
keep up these efforts and continue to pass legislation that addresses 
the specific problems out there, I think this year, 2019, we will see 
the tide turning. We will see fewer addictions. We will see fewer 
deaths from overdoses. We will see more families not broken apart but 
coming back together. We will see our communities begin to heal because 
we are beginning to make progress. It is not showing up in all the 
numbers yet, but I see it back home with regard to individual regions 
and cities and with regard to communities doing an awesome job, with 
volunteers coming together and using some of the tools we have been 
giving them to have a more effective prevention campaign and also to 
get people into treatment. Where that is working, they are making a 
huge difference. So I am hopeful that in 2019, if we can keep this up, 
on a bipartisan basis, we will be able to see this progress be 
manifested in our communities.
  There is plenty more to be done this year. I joined a bipartisan 
group of colleagues on the Senate floor just before the holidays, 
calling on the Senate to pass the Restore Our Parks Act, which is to 
deal with the $12 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks. 
Things are falling apart--roads, bridges, water systems--and it is a 
shame because it is really a debt that is owed. We aren't keeping up 
because our annual budget doesn't provide money for these so-called 
capital expenses. Yet, if we don't deal with them, it becomes far more 
expensive. If the roof isn't fixed because it is too expensive, what 
happens? You have the entire building--as is happening at one of our 
great parks in Ohio--which has to be rebuilt at a huge cost to the 
taxpayer. So there is an opportunity here--again, on a bipartisan way--
to deal with this long overdue maintenance at our national parks. The 
administration supports it, our Energy and Natural Resources Committee 
has voted it out of committee with a strong bipartisan vote. The House 
of Representatives supports it on a bipartisan basis. Let's get it 
done.
  There has also been talk of a major infrastructure compromise. We 
need
that. Our roads and bridges are crumbling, generally, not just at our 
parks. We need an infrastructure bill. Maybe the parks bill will be the 
start of that. We will see if that can be something where we can find 
compromise.
  Of course, we also have to make progress on healthcare. The costs of 
healthcare are out of control. I know Senator Alexander talked about 
this earlier on the floor today, but there are so many opportunities 
for us to improve our healthcare system and the cost and the quality of 
that system. It is something that has been very difficult and very 
partisan. It has been difficult for us to make any progress on that, 
but I think we have to put our partisan blinders away and say: How can 
we come up with sensible solutions? Some have talked about it today on 
the floor. Senator Collins, who was here earlier today as Presiding 
Officer, has specific legislation to have these high-risk pools in 
States--it has worked in her State of Maine, and it can work 
nationally--to be sure that we are reducing the cost for everybody for 
their premiums, deductibles, and copays.
  I think the American people are looking for wins right now. I think 
it would help our country to have some of these wins. I think there are 
some great examples I have presented today of some pretty easy wins, of 
some low-hanging fruit--whether it is dealing with these issues that we 
are left with here with the government shutdown, making some small 
steps forward on immigration reform right away, or whether it is low-
hanging fruit like the reform of the Internal Revenue Service, the 
retirement savings expansion, so people can save more for retirement, 
and this idea that we can begin to turn the tide on the opioid 
epidemic, which has gripped our country. It doesn't have to be a year 
of gridlock. It can be a year of progress.
  My hope is that on this opening day, as Members are walking down the 
aisle and are here with their families and celebrating and the optimism 
of opening day and thinking that hope springs eternal, this can be a 
good season. This can be a good year. This can be a year where we focus 
on what is best for the people we represent and focus on what is best 
for our country. If we do that, I think we will make a difference, and 
I think we will look back and realize that it doesn't have to be this 
way.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Capito). The majority whip.
                          



Mr. THUNE. Madam President, as we begin a new Congress, it is always 
an exciting time. There are a lot of families and friends here. Our 
Members and colleagues were sworn in earlier today. It represents a new 
beginning--obviously, a time when there is hope and optimism that we 
can come together and do some good things for the people we represent 
in our respective States and for our country. That is the way we 
approach this new session of Congress.
  There is a lot I think we can do. We can find some common ground and 
work together. Obviously, we have to deal with the issues of last 
year's business before we can start this business of this new year.
  Last year's business is incomplete. We are almost 2 weeks into a 
partial government shutdown because Democrats don't want to fund 
increased security for the border. Border security is a national 
security requirement. Every Member of Congress, Democrat or Republican, 
should take seriously our responsibility to protect our Nation by 
ensuring that our borders are secure. At one time Democrats understood 
that.
  In 2006, the Democratic leader and the ranking member of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee voted for legislation to authorize a border fence. 
They were joined in that vote by then-Senators Biden, Clinton, and 
Obama. In 2013, every Senate Democrat supported legislation requiring 
the completion of a 700-mile fence along our southern border. This 
legislation would have provided $46 billion for border security and $8 
billion specifically for the wall.
  Nearly every Senate Democrat supported $25 billion in border security 
funding just last February--just recently, less than 1 year ago. Yet 
today, Democrats would rather keep part of the government shut down 
than provide the money needed to secure our borders. The question is, 
What has changed?
  Our national security situation certainly hasn't changed. Our borders 
are not sufficiently secure, and as we have seen, they are a target for 
illegal entry. Over the past year, illegal border crossing 
apprehensions have shot up by more than 30 percent. The holes in our 
border security leave us susceptible to illegal entry by gang members, 
human traffickers, drug dealers, terrorists, and weapons traffickers. 
The Democrats are refusing to budge on sorely needed border security 
funding. Why? I think that is a fair question.
  It is, I think, because Democrats are reluctant to oppose the far-
left wing of their party, which increasingly seems to be advancing this 
preposterous notion that we really don't need to secure our borders at 
all. Every nation has to secure its borders. A country without borders 
really isn't a country. Preventing dangerous individuals and goods from 
entering is an essential part of every country's security, and as my 
Democratic colleagues have proved in the past, they know this, which is 
why they voted that way in previous sessions of Congress, as recently 
as last year.
  I hope they will think better of this government shutdown and decide 
that their national security obligations are more important than 
catering to the far-left wing of their party. It is time to fund our 
border security and to end this shutdown. It simply requires sides to 
come together to find that common ground and to do what is in our 
country's best interests and the best interests of the American people; 
that is, to make sure that our country has a secure border and that we 
discourage people from coming here illegally and encourage them to come 
through legal means.
  I had the opportunity a couple of weeks ago in my State of South 
Dakota to welcome into our State and country 99 new citizens from 33 
countries around the world. They came here the legal way. They went 
through the process and followed our rules, followed our laws. That is 
what we want to encourage more of.
  What we don't need more of are people coming into this country 
illegally and presenting the types of threats I mentioned earlier--
anytime we have that many people, in a mass way, migrating across our 
border. I hope and sincerely believe that as a Congress, as a Senate 
working with this President--who has made this a big priority for his 
administration--it is an important priority for our country and a 
requirement and obligation that I think we all have as U.S. Senators, 
first and foremost, to protect our country and to protect the American 
people. If we don't get that right, the rest is really just 
conversation.
  I hope the Democrats will come to the conclusion that their 
statements in the past and their votes in the past in support of border 
security are the right way to proceed and will continue in that 
tradition we have had in the country in the past in which, on these 
important issues, both sides come together and work to find common 
ground.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Boozman). The majority leader.
                        


Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize Gavin Gee, 
director of the Idaho Department of Finance, who announced his 
retirement after over four decades of distinguished service to the 
State.
  Gavin has led an impressive career in the banking sector, dedicating 
the majority of his life to promoting access to vigorous, healthy, and 
comprehensive financial services for Idaho citizens. He began his 
career at the Idaho Department of Finance in 1977 and has served as the 
department's director since 1996 after a short stint as its acting 
director in 1995. Impressively, in a post that requires Gubernatorial 
appointment, as well as the advice and consent of the State senate, 
Gavin has served under four different Governors.
  Prior to being acting director, he served the department in a number 
of other roles, including as the department's deputy attorney general, 
securities bureau chief, and financial institutions bureau chief. He 
also served as chairman and a member of the State Liaison Committee of 
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council between 1994 and 
1999 and as chairman and on the boards of directors of both the 
Conference of State Bank Supervisors and the National Association of 
State Credit Union Supervisors.
  Throughout his career, Gavin has fought to ensure the financial 
interests of Idaho citizens are effectively served. He has also 
championed policies and enforced laws to protect Idaho's citizens from 
fraud, unsafe practices, and unlawful conduct. He is a leading figure 
in community banking, widely respected by those in the industry and 
those with whom he works.
  In addition to his service at the State level, Gavin has contributed 
meaningfully to the national dialogue on financial services supervision 
and regulation. He was instrumental in the development of the 
Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry, improving 
supervision of the mortgage industry and enhancing consumer protection. 
From 2006 to 2012, he served as chairman of the CSBS/American 
Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators State Regulatory 
Registry, the board which oversees the development and operation of the 
System. He has worked closely with Congress on regulatory relief 
efforts, counseling lawmakers on the Financial Services Regulatory 
Relief Act of 2006 and then again on the Economic Growth, Regulatory 
Relief and Consumer Protection Act in 2018. On several occasions, Gavin 
lent his expertise in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee. We 
have enjoyed a close working relationship, and I am grateful for his 
willingness to engage and educate lawmakers.
  Gavin has been a real asset to the State of Idaho and the Nation, and 
I consider him a good friend. I appreciate his lifetime of service and 
wish him well in retirement.<bullet>
                        


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until 10 a.m., Friday, 
January 4; further, that following the prayer and pledge, the morning 
hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, 
and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the 
day; finally, that following leader remarks, the Senate be in a period 
of morning business, with Senators permitted to speak therein for up to 
10 minutes each.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                        


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hoeven). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
                        


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first allow me to welcome all of the new 
Members who were just sworn in for the first time as U.S. Senators, as 
well as my friends who were reelected to this body. We are entrusted 
with an awesome responsibility to conduct the vital business of this 
country we all love. We come at it from many perspectives, backgrounds, 
and geographies, but the hope is that we can come together and get some 
good things done.
  I hope, in this new year and throughout the new Congress, the Senate 
will prove worthy of the responsibility and faithfully discharge our 
duties to our States, our country, the Constitution, and, of course, 
the well-being of the American people.
  Now, sadly, as I address you, this new Congress is under the shadow 
of a government shutdown. Only one person is to blame for this 
predicament--President Trump. Democrats made several offers to the 
President that would have kept the government open over the holiday 
break. We even agreed to Leader McConnell's proposal to pass a clean 
continuing resolution to avoid a shutdown, and it passed the Senate 
unanimously; every single Democrat and every single Republican was for 
it. All indications were that President Trump would sign it, but then, 
hounded by the far right, particularly the radio and TV commentators, 
President Trump threw a temper tantrum at the eleventh hour, and 
demanded more than $5 billion for an ineffective border wall, knowing 
full well that it lacked the votes in the Senate.
  After publicly rooting for a government shutdown for months, 
President Trump finally got his wish. Now, nine Cabinet Departments and 
dozens of other Agencies are shut down and hundreds of thousands of 
Federal workers are doing their jobs without pay. Food safety 
inspectors are running out of resources. Federal courts are running out 
of money. National Parks are suffering. In a few short months, the IRS 
will not be able to issue tax refunds that are vital to so many 
families.
  Yesterday, the President invited congressional leaders to the White 
House. Speaker-designate Pelosi and I sought to have a sensible 
discussion about how to reopen the government. We proposed two bills 
that separate the wall fight from the government shutdown. Let me 
repeat that. The two bills we proposed separate the wall fight from the 
government shutdown. You don't have to have one, even if you can't 
resolve the other.
  We proposed two bills: first, a six-bill minibus to provide 
appropriations for every Cabinet Department except Homeland Security 
and, second, a 30-day continuing resolution for Homeland Security.
  The six bills are not Democratic bills, as I heard some of the 
rightwing commentators say. The six bills are the same bills that 
Republicans, including Leader McConnell, supported in the Senate 
Appropriations Committee. The CR passed unanimously through the Senate 
last year. Four of the six bills came to the floor and passed the 
Senate 92 to 6, with the vast majority of Democrats and Republicans 
being for them.
  These are not Democratic bills. They were crafted in a bipartisan way 
by a Republican-controlled Senate Appropriations Committee and a 
Republican-controlled Senate. If these bills pass, they would allow us 
to continue discussion on border security without leaving large 
portions of the government shut down.
  We obviously disagree about the best way to secure the border. We 
believe the wall is wrong on many counts. The wall is ineffective--most 
experts agree with that--and the wall is expensive.
  When the wall was promised by President Trump, he said it was a 
campaign pledge he must keep. That was not his campaign pledge. His 
campaign pledge was to build a wall and have Mexico pay for it, not 
American taxpayers. So it is not a campaign pledge.
  The President has no plan to deal with eminent domain. There are 
hundreds of landowners on the southern border who will go to court and 
fight every attempt by the Federal Government to expropriate their 
land. That will take years.
  By the way, the Trump administration has not even spent the border 
security funding allocated by Congress last year.
  The wall is wrong. It is ineffective; it is expensive; Mexico will 
not pay for it; there is no plan to deal with eminent domain; and they 
haven't even spent the border security funding allocated last year.
  One more point for so many Americans: We do not want the wall to be a 
symbol of America. We much prefer the Statue of Liberty be that symbol. 
The symbolism is bad for the country, for our economy, for our 
security, and for our ability to get along in the world.
  Democrats certainly support strong, effective border security: 
fencing, drones, technology, roads, what the experts say will actually 
work--not a wall. We totally disagree on that. But even with that 
disagreement, I repeat, there is no reason to keep unrelated parts of 
the government shut down because of those disagreements.
  If Leader McConnell, tonight, would put the bill that is passing the 
House on the floor, it would pass. After all, it was crafted by 
Republicans, especially those on the Appropriations Committee. So they 
are not opposed to it.
  Yesterday at our meeting, I asked the President on multiple occasions 
to give me one good reason he should keep large portions of the 
government shut down while we have a separate debate about the border. 
He couldn't name one. He kept coming back and talking about the border. 
I said: No, Mr. President, these six bills have nothing to do with the 
border. Why can't we pass them? Why must we hold millions of Americans 
who depend on the services of these Agencies that are closed--hundreds 
of thousands of workers who get paid by these Agencies--why must we 
hold them hostage? Why must a temper tantrum determine how we vote and 
what happens in this government? Everyone can shut down the government 
on anything--any leader, any President. It is not the way to do things.
  The President couldn't name a single reason that made any sense about 
why he should keep the other Agencies closed--not Homeland Security, 
but the others, and that is the best indication of why there is a 
shutdown. President Trump is holding the government hostage over his 
wall, using the well-being of millions of Americans as hostage in a 
futile attempt to get what he wants: a concrete border wall.
  Where do we go from here? Well, we have a new Congress and several 
new Senators were just sworn in. The House of Representatives, of 
course, will change control, and Democrats will see a healthy majority. 
The new House majority is poised tonight to pass the two bills we 
offered the President. Leader McConnell ought to take it up here on the 
floor of the Senate.
  Let me be clear about a few points. The six-bill minibus is 
completely silent on the issue of border security. It would solely fund 
the eight Cabinet Departments not named Homeland Security at levels 
agreed to by both parties and signed off on by the overwhelming 
majority of Republicans on both the Appropriations Committee and in the 
Senate. There is absolutely nothing in those six bills that my 
Republican friends oppose. Let me repeat: There is nothing in those six 
bills that Senate Republicans oppose. All but six voted for the four of 
them that came to the floor, and every single Republican on the 
Appropriations Committee, including Leader McConnell, voted for them in 
the Appropriations Committee.
  When Leader McConnell calls this some Democratic proposal, he is 
absolutely wrong. Leader McConnell voted for it; Leader McConnell 
supported it on both the floor and in the Appropriations Committee. It 
is not a Democratic proposal. In fact, the House Democrats went out of 
their way to pass a proposal that Republicans supported, and Senators 
Graham, Moran, Lankford, and Murkowski voted for those bills as chair 
of their Appropriations Committees. They put them together.
  Even if there are disagreements about border security, why not pass 
the six noncontroversial bipartisan bills? That is the question I would 
ask every one of my Republican colleagues. That is the question the 
American people are asking every one of my Republican colleagues. Above 
all, they are asking that of President Trump. What is the rationale for 
keeping eight Cabinet Departments shuttered for an unrelated dispute 
over the wall? There is none.
  We can continue to debate the best way to secure our border. We have 
disagreements on those, but let us reopen these Cabinet Departments and 
ensure hundreds of thousands of Federal workers receive their paychecks 
and, even more importantly, that these Departments get back to work for 
the American people.
  As I mentioned, the House will also pass a 30-day continuing 
resolution for the Department of Homeland Security. Again, there is 
nothing in that bill that Senate Republicans don't support. The Senate 
passed it unanimously before Christmas break. The only thing that has 
changed between now and then is that we will have a House Speaker who 
will pass this bill, as well, and once the House passes these two 
bills, Leader McConnell should put them on the floor where I believe 
they will receive strong bipartisan majorities. It is going to be very 
hard for a lot of Republicans to vote no on the same bills they 
supported just a few months ago.
  The leader says that he is waiting for White House approval. 
Unfortunately, the White House is all over the map. We don't know where 
the White House stands on any of these things. Yesterday, President 
Trump publicly rejected an offer made to Democrats a week ago by his 
own Vice President. There is no telling where the President will come 
down on any given day. Surely, Leader McConnell knows--after passing a 
CR through this Chamber, thinking it had the President's support--that 
if we rely on the President alone, we can be shut down for a long time. 
At this point, we need to take the lead here in Congress in the hope 
that we can show President Trump the sweet light of reason.
  We have given our Republican colleagues a way out of the shutdown 
based on Republican-approved proposals. All Leader McConnell needs to 
do to reopen the government is to bring to the floor the legislation 
that he and nearly every other Republican Senator already support.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. LEAHY. Mr


Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I want to talk about what is happening in 
Congress. We are in the 13th day of the Trump shutdown--13 days that 9 
of 15 Federal Departments and dozens of Agencies have shut their doors; 
13 days in which hundreds of thousands of Americans have been 
furloughed or are working without pay; 13 days that Americans have been 
denied government services on which they rely and for which they pay 
taxes.
  The President is holding Federal Government funding hostage in an 
attempt to force American taxpayers to pay for an ineffective and 
expensive wall on the southern border that he promised over and over 
again Mexico would pay for. Everybody knows that is not true. Mexico 
will not pay for President Trump's wall. Unfortunately, the American 
people are paying the price of the Trump shutdown, and, frankly, he 
does not seem to care. Let me give some examples.
  Since the shutdown began, our national parks--the treasure of this 
country--have been left largely unsupervised. The welcome centers are 
closed. Park Rangers have been furloughed. There are few emergency or 
law enforcement personnel left to police the parks or rescue injured 
guests. That affects visitor safety, it reduces public access, and it 
threatens national and cultural resources in national parks in every 
part of our country. We are already receiving reports of damage to 
sensitive lands and national treasures--campgrounds littered with 
trash, overflowing toilets, locked restrooms. Even where parks remain 
open, campgrounds and other sites are beginning to close because of the 
obvious health and safety reasons.
  Aside from government, businesses and gateway communities surrounding
our parks--taxpaying businesses--are also paying the price of lost 
sales, rentals, and empty storefronts, as families cancel their plans 
to visit because the shutdown drags on and on and on.
  Because of the Trump shutdown, the U.S. Forest Service has curtailed 
forest thinning and fire-prevention projects. Just think of that. 
Within months of when the Nation was reeling from and dealing with a 
record-setting fire season, we cannot do the things that might prevent 
these devastating fires--we cannot get in there and work on them.
  Just a few days ago, the Farm Service Agency shut their doors. That 
is the Agency that supports farmers and rural communities across the 
country. We came together--Republicans and Democrats--and passed a 5-
year farm bill. I was proud to be one of the conferees of that farm 
bill. I saw both parties work together. We passed it. It is a complex 
and important bill, but farmers and ranchers need information from that 
bill right now.
  Every farmer and rancher will tell you they are planning for the 
growing season: What can they plant? What should they buy? What should 
they do? They don't know how the laws will affect their operations 
heading into the planting season. Why? Because no one is in the office 
or staffing the phones, answering these questions or signing up 
producers for new programs. There is nobody there. Farmers will also 
not be able to apply for much needed loans that they count on to get 
started in the year and pay back as a result of their labor during the 
season.
  Many farmers, like those in my home State of Vermont, face financial 
hardship due to the dramatic drop in commodity prices brought on by 
President Trump's tariffs. They need these loans to help pay their 
bills, stay afloat through the winter and prepare for the spring 
planting. With banks not willing to lend to them and not knowing what 
is going to happen, many rely on the U.S. Department of Agriculture as 
their lender of last resort. But the doors are closed, and there is 
nobody home.
  While the President loudly proclaimed he would provide assistance 
through the Market Facilitation Program to help farmers mitigate the 
financial losses caused by his tariffs, as of December 28, there is no 
one there to process any new applications for these payments. The 
bottom line? The President put the tariffs in, but now they are told to 
fend for themselves because the President is holding the Department of 
Agriculture and its safety nets hostage to secure funding for his 
border wall. The Department of Agriculture has nothing to do with 
President Trump's border wall. It could not fund it if they wanted to. 
Yet virtually every farmer of every kind in this country is going to be 
affected by it.
  In addition to government services that have ground to a halt, an 
estimated 450,000 employees are working, but they are working without 
pay. That includes 41,000 Federal law enforcement and correctional 
officers at the Department of Justice--ATF agents, FBI, U.S. marshals, 
and DEA agents. They are not getting paid, but their mortgages still 
come due. The tuition payments for their children's education comes 
due. If they have healthcare costs, that comes due. They are told: You 
show up for work. Maybe we will get around to paying you and maybe we 
will not.
  Then, you have 380,000 Federal employees who also have children, 
families and bills who have been furloughed. They have no guarantee 
that they will receive back payment when they return to work. Let me 
give you an idea of who some of these people are. They are 96 percent 
of our employees at NASA. I suppose they can sit at home and watch 
China land their satellite on the back side of the Moon.
  Who else does it include? It includes 80 percent of the National Park 
Service, 60 percent of the Department of Commerce, and 33 percent of 
the Forest Service. In addition, many Federal contractors have 
discontinued their services, which leaves thousands of employees 
without work and without a paycheck.
  This doesn't affect the President, but many of our dedicated Federal 
employees work every day to serve our country, and they live paycheck 
to paycheck: custodial workers, cafeteria workers, telephone operators, 
contract specialists, customer service representatives. These are the 
people the taxpayers can call when they have a question, and now they 
get no answer. They are people who have mortgages to pay. They have 
families to take care of. This financial disruption comes on the heels 
of the holiday season, when so many families' budgets are tight, it is 
even harder to fathom. It is even harder to justify. In fact, I will 
say it cannot be justified.
  Most of these Federal employees who are without a paycheck have 
absolutely nothing to do with border security. That is the worst part 
about it. They are not the ones involved with border security, but they 
are casualties of President Trump's single-minded obsession of walling 
off our southern border. The President has repeatedly said: This is all 
about are border security.
  Really? Really? Come on. Give me a break. His actions caused the very 
Department in charge of securing our borders to be cut off from all the 
funding. Eighty-eight percent of the Department of Homeland Security 
employees are working without pay. They have to think about how they 
are going to pay their mortgage, their bills. They are working without 
pay. That includes 54,000 Customs and Border Patrol agents who protect 
our southern border and our northern borders. Many of them are 
veterans.
  As of January 1, roughly 42,000 hard-working, dedicated members of 
our Nation's Coast Guard will be protecting our country without pay. 
TSA officers screened over 2 million passengers and their bags per day 
through the holidays, but they are not being paid. I talked to some 
when I flew back from Vermont. It is hurting. One has healthcare bills. 
Another has a mortgage. They don't know how they are going to pay it.
  Last week, House Democrats put forward a commonsense path to end the 
Trump shutdown. They introduced a minibus comprised of six bipartisan 
appropriations bills and a continuing resolution for the Department of 
Homeland Security to keep it up and running through February 8.
  The House is going to vote on both these bills this evening. I expect 
they will pass. After all, just a few weeks ago, the same bills passed 
this Republican-controlled Senate unanimously. We know the votes are 
there to pass.
  I urge my friend, the majority leader, Senator McConnell, and Senate 
Republicans to take up these bills expeditiously. The six-bill minibus 
is not controversial. Senator Shelby is chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee, I am vice chairman of the Appropriations Committee, and we 
both voted for them, as have virtually all members of the 
Appropriations Committee. There is wide bipartisan support in this 
Chamber. In fact, four of the six bills passed the Senate 96 to 6. The 
other two reported out of the Appropriations Committee were nearly 
unanimous votes. Why? Because they are a product of bipartisan 
compromise. They provide billions of dollars in new resources to 
address critical needs of the American people and to protect the U.S. 
national security.
  It is irresponsible for the President to hold these six bills hostage 
in order to compel taxpayers to pay for his wall, a wall he falsely 
promised Mexico would pay for. If he would stop holding them hostage, 
we could pass these bills and send them to the President for signature. 
That would get the vast majority of the Federal Government back open 
for the good of the American people. We ought to do that.
  It also makes sense to pass a continuing resolution for the 
Department of Homeland Security through February 8. We should not shut 
down the very Agency responsible for securing our borders over a fight 
for what is the best way to secure our border.
  I will tell you what is not the best way, to furlough everybody, stop 
paying them, close down the government. Does that make us secure? Of 
course, it does not. Everyone agrees--Republicans and Democrats alike--
we need to keep our borders safe and secure. Let's have smart border 
security, border security that works--new technologies proven to work 
on the border and our ports of entry, new air and marine assets, and 
additional personnel where needed. We do not need a 30-foot medieval 
wall. I visited that border. I know from the professionals who are 
there
what they need. They need a lot of resources, the very last of which 
would be a wall.
  Let's recall, before the holidays, the President said he would sign a 
continuing resolution through February 8. We had a path forward. We all 
relied on the President's word. After 24 hours of FOX News and 
rightwing pundits criticizing him, the President's ego was so bruised 
he reversed course and broke his word. Here we are, 13 days into a 
Trump shutdown.
  It has to end. We have a clear, sensible, responsible path forward. I 
strongly urge the Senate Republicans to support and pass this 
bipartisan compromise. After all, almost every Republican and every 
Democrat has voted for these bills. Let's vote for them again and tell 
the President we will work on what is needed for border security. We 
all agree on the need for border security. Let's work on what is the 
best way forward, but let's not close down the Department of 
Agriculture. Let's not close down all these other Departments that 
American taxpayers rely on.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Collins). The Senator from Texas is 
recognized.
                          



Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Pastor Kenny 
Foreman, who passed away on December 16, 2018. I spoke three years ago 
on the impact he made on Santa Clara County and it saddens me that he 
has left us so soon. He was a beloved member of our community whose 
passing is deeply felt.
   Pastor Kenny Foreman dedicated his life to the ministry. He started 
to travel the country at age seventeen as an evangelist minister. With 
his wife, Shirley, he continued his commitment to his beliefs and 
established the Cathedral of Faith in 1965. Since then Pastor Foreman 
was a pillar in our community's spiritual life. He has touched 
thousands of lives with a congregation of more than 12,000 members with 
over 70 ministries.
   As his life's work, the Cathedral of Faith, serves the spiritual 
needs of the community and gives help to those in need. One of the 
ministries, ``Reaching Out,'' is a food assistance program that 
operates one of the largest and most efficient food programs in the 
State of California. Their mission is to serve the low-income, 
disadvantaged, and homeless in Santa Clara County. Other ministries 
serve those recently released from incarceration, give support to those 
with addiction, and aid parents with children who have special needs. 
These programs are just a few that support our community and are 
emblematic of Pastor Foreman's life-long service to others.
   I first met and worked with Kenny Foreman nearly forty years ago. I 
know personally of his love for God and his dedication to our community 
and especially to those in need. He was a remarkable man and someone I 
was privileged to consider a friend.
   Pastor Kenny Foreman is survived by sons, Ken and Kurt; their 
mother, Shirley; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and 
countless friends. Mr. Speaker, our Santa Clara County community mourns 
his passing, but we are grateful for his life, his generosity, and 
contributions. He has left our world a better place and will be dearly 
missed.
                        


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I was not present for Roll Call Vote No. 
6 on adoption of the rule providing for consideration of H. Res. 6. Had 
I been present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 6.
                        


Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, today is former Congressman Lester Wolff's 
100th birthday, the oldest living former member of Congress.
   Lester was born in New York City in 1919. He served his country 
during World War II, achieving the rank of Colonel in the Civil Air 
Patrol.
   In 1964, Lester was elected to Congress and went on to serve the 
people of New York for 16 illustrious years. In 2014, he was awarded 
the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award.
   As a Congressman, he is remembered for playing an active role in 
foreign affairs, but on Long Island he is also remembered for standing 
up to powerful interests to protect the environment.
   In 1967, the New York State Legislature--at the insistence of then 
Governor Nelson Rockefeller and master planner Robert Moses--authorized 
a bridge across the Long Island Sound.
   Lester immediately saw that this bridge would despoil the pristine 
and precious resource of the Long Island Sound and soon found himself 
at the center of an enormous political fight.
   Lester eventually won this fight and the Oyster Bay Wildlife Refuge 
was born. Lester's efforts in 1968 are an important part of our 
nation's environmental history.
   In recognition of his monumental contributions to the preservation 
and protection of our environment, especially on Long Island's 
beautiful North Shore, I am proposing the renaming of the Oyster Bay 
National Wildlife Refuge to the Congressman Lester Wolff National 
Wildlife Refuge.
   These precious wetlands--at Congressman Lester Wolff's urging--were 
protected in 1968.
   Last Congress, the House passed H.R. 6064 with 385 votes in favor. 
In this new Congress, I ask for my colleagues continued support to 
rename to the Lester Wolff National Wildlife Refuge.
   On behalf of the institution he served, and all his colleagues, past 
and present, I wish Lester a happy 100th year and many more.
                        


Mr. DeSaulnier. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Karen Sakata 
for her dedicated and passionate service to our community.
  A third generation Japanese-American, Karen was born in San Francisco 
and currently lives in Alamo with her husband, Shima. Karen graduated 
from the University of California Berkeley with a Bachelor's degree in 
psychology and received a Master's degree in speech pathology from San 
Jose State University.
  Karen has proudly worked in the education field for the past 44 
years, including 15 years in general education and 26 years in special 
education. Karen has worked as both an administrator and an educator, 
holding positions such as Speech Language Pathologist, Resource 
Specialist-Auditory Processing, Early Childhood Specialist, Program 
Administrator, Elementary Principal, Associate Superintendent, and 
Deputy Superintendent.
  In 2014, Karen was elected to serve as Contra Costa Superintendent of 
Schools. Over the past four years, she created programs for students 
with disabilities and students who are incarcerated or expelled. Her 
``Attendance Awareness Campaign'' strove to improve academic success by 
fighting chronic absence. Karen also initiated the creation of 
resources to help school administrators communicate with employees, 
parents, and students about inclusivity and respect.
  Karen's work as Superintendent was in service of her goal to find and 
build upon the strengths of each individual child. For the past four 
years, she has been a strong and inspiring leader for 177,000 public 
school students and 18 school districts in Contra Costa County. Karen 
Sakata has left a positive impact on Contra Costa County's public 
school system, its students, and the community at large. I am thankful 
for Karen's service and friendship, and I wish her the best in her 
future endeavors.
                        


Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I regret I was unable to vote due to a 
death in the family. Had I been present, I would have voted: NAY on 
Roll Call No. 6; YEA on Roll Call No. 5; NAY on Roll Call No. 4; and 
NAY on Roll Call No. 3.
                        


Mr. UPTON. Madam Speaker, I was unavoidably detained due to 
collarbone surgery. Had I been present, I would have voted YEA
on Roll Call No. 483; YEA on Roll Call No. 484; YEA on Roll Call No. 
485; YEA on Roll Call No. 486; YEA on Roll Call No. 487; YEA on Roll 
Call No. 488; YEA on Roll Call No. 489; YEA on Roll Call No. 490; YEA 
on Roll Call No. 491; YEA on Roll Call No. 492; YEA on Roll Call No. 
493; YEA on Roll Call No. 494; YEA on Roll Call No. 495; YEA on Roll 
Call No. 496; YEA on Roll Call No. 497; and NAY on Roll Call No. 498.
                          



Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I regret I was unable to vote due to a 
death in the family.
  Had I been present, I would have voted: NAY on Roll Call No. 11; YEA 
on Roll Call No. 10; NAY on Roll Call No. 9; YEA on Roll Call No. 8; 
and NAY on Roll Call No. 7.



Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I am honored to rise today in recognition 
of the important work done by the Rotary Club of Boca Raton and to 
congratulate the recipients of their Outstanding People and Leaders 
(OPAL) awards. This year's honorees are Charles Bender, Rabbi David 
Steinhardt, Aubrey and Sally Struhl, and Art and Glorianne Polacheck. 
In addition, I would like to congratulate the recipients of the Boca 
Raton Rotary Club's Lifetime Legacy Award, Jim and Arlene Sclafani.
  Through their philanthropy, service, and selfless sacrifices, each 
honoree has touched countless lives and made a lasting impact on our 
South Florida community. The work they do and the time they have put in 
is truly deserving of these awards.
  I extend my most sincere congratulations to all of tonight's 
honorees. As we begin this new year, I am confident that the Rotary 
Club of Boca Raton will continue to be a cherished institution in South 
Florida that betters our community. I greatly appreciate the Club's 
work and am pleased to honor their OPAL and Lifetime Legacy Award 
honorees.
                        


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a 
vote on agreeing to the Speaker's approval of the Journal.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the Speaker's approval of 
the Journal.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I object to the vote on the ground that 
a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is 
not present.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8, rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
  The point of no quorum is considered withdrawn.
                          



Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, as I did my very first speech in 2013, 
and again in 2017, I rise today to sound a clarion call for the urgent 
action by this new Congress to address the senseless gun violence that 
continues to claim too many innocent lives across our country.
  Sadly, since my first speech 6 years ago, Americans continue to be 
gunned down in schools, workplaces, houses of worship, community 
gatherings, and even while sitting comfortably in their own homes.
  Time and again, Congress pauses for the standard moment of silence 
and yet, so far, has failed to take real action.
  Newtown, Parkland, Las Vegas, Mother Emanuel AME, Tree of Life 
synagogue, the Capital Gazette--these names are but a few of the 
grotesquely long list of mass shootings and lives cut violently short. 
And for every mass shooting that captures the headlines, countless 
other victims are killed or maimed in shootings across our country each 
and every day.
  But as we turn the page on this new Congress, I have hope, hope that 
this year we will finally take action to make our community safer: 
actions such as passing universal background checks, banning high 
capacity magazines, and making trafficking of weapons across State 
lines a Federal crime.
  We have the power to save lives. Let us now find the courage to act 
and build a safer future for our children.
                        


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 6, Title II--Select 
Committee on the Modernization of Congress.
  Title II establishes a bipartisan Select Committee on the 
Modernization of Congress to investigate, study, make findings, hold 
public hearings, and develop recommendations to modernize and improve 
the way Congress operates.
  This institution has a responsibility to the people--to our 
constituents--and to this country to build a Congress that works for 
everyone, not just those at the top. This is not something that will 
happen on its own. It is going to take hard work, but it is worthwhile 
work.
  This is not the first time Congress, as an institution, has wrestled 
with how to be more effective and efficient. Three times in the 20th 
century--in 1945, in 1965, and again in 1992 when Ms. Lofgren and I 
came to Congress--we established joint committees to examine various 
aspects of the legislative process in an effort to improve efficiency 
and promote transparency.
  Madam Speaker, today we are at a similar crossroads. Last Congress, 
we witnessed the Republicans lead the most closed Congress in the 
history of our country. Republicans blocked everything from immigration 
reform and infrastructure to gun safety and lowering prescription drug 
costs.
  Last November, many of the American people demanded a new direction. 
Part of that new direction includes making the House of Representatives 
an institution that debates big ideas.
  We are at a moment where the challenges we face as a country are so 
great--everything from the opioid epidemic that is devastating 
communities across the country to the immense economic and human cost 
the world will incur as a result of climate change--that we must come 
together as a body in a deliberate and transparent way.
                              {time}  0915
  The select committee will provide a venue for Members to consult 
outside experts, academics, and this institution's own Members in an 
effort to analyze, debate, and adopt those ideas that will help us 
improve how we do the people's business.
  This select committee, along with the bipartisan rules package that 
passed on the House floor yesterday, is proof that we stand ready, 
willing, and able to protect not only this institution's prerogative 
but the interests of the American people.
  With public trust in Congress at historic lows, House Democrats are 
taking transformational steps that will modernize Congress, restore 
regular order, and bring integrity back to this institution. This 
comprehensive and deliberate approach will undoubtedly improve the 
overall function of this great institution that we all have the 
privilege and honor to serve in.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. COLE. Madam


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), chairman of the Rules 
Committee and my good friend.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Hastings), for yielding to me and for his leadership on the Rules 
Committee. I am looking forward to working with him as a member of the 
majority in this Congress.
  Madam Speaker, we started an important conversation about how to 
improve this House as the rules package was developed. Members on both 
sides of the aisle brought forward ideas. Many of them were included in 
the final package. But these rules shouldn't be the end of the 
dialogue. They should be only a start.
  I know that there are many Members who will have even more good ideas 
in the coming weeks and months, and this Select Committee on the 
Modernization of Congress is a unique opportunity to continue the 
conversation.
  It is a truly bipartisan way to consider ideas on how to promote a 
more modern and efficient Congress and procedures to develop the next 
generation of leaders, increase staff diversity, and improve technology 
and innovation. It is also a way for this Congress to hold ourselves 
accountable, to ensure our work to reform this House is delivering on 
behalf of the American people.
  I especially thank Representatives Kilmer, Lipinski, and Sarbanes, as 
well as the New Democrat Coalition, for this idea. It is a step that 
this House can take, and it is a step that this House, quite frankly, 
should take.
  Madam Speaker, finally, I just want to say, as the gentleman from 
Oklahoma pointed out, this select committee is truly bipartisan, and 
the ideas that come out of this select committee will be truly 
bipartisan.
  We can improve the way this House is run. We can improve the way we 
do things here. I think the American people are hoping we will move in 
that direction, and I think we have an opportunity to do that.
  I say to the gentleman from Oklahoma, I really appreciate his tone 
and his support for this initiative. We all talk about new beginnings 
and about ways to make things better, and I think we are off to a good 
start. For that, I thank the gentleman from Florida.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Madam Speaker, I echo my friend's comments, to some degree.
  First, I thank him personally, and I thank his fellow members on the 
Democratic Rules Committee, for presenting this proposal. It is a 
genuinely excellent and bipartisan effort, and it suggests that the 
language we heard about trying to change the way in which we operate 
was very sincere and well motivated. It is much appreciated on our side 
of the aisle.
  While we certainly had our differences yesterday, I appreciate the 
way, frankly, that was handled by both sides. I am pleased that we are 
ending this on a point of agreement and a bipartisan commitment to 
actually improve the nature of our institution.
  Again, I expect this committee to actually produce really substantive 
proposals. I don't know yet, obviously, who the members on either side 
will be, but I know the leadership on both sides takes this very 
seriously. I think there is a genuine commitment to try to open up the 
process a little bit to make it, if you will, more Member-friendly, 
whether you are Members in the majority or the minority, and that is to 
be commended on the part of my friend.
  Again, this is a good start, as my friend Mr. McGovern said, and I 
look forward to playing my part in participating as we make progress in 
this direction.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Washington (Mr. Kilmer), my friend, a member of the 
Appropriations Committee.


Mr. KILMER. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Madam Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of title II of this 
resolution to establish a new Select Committee on the Modernization of 
Congress, and I start by thanking Chairman McGovern and the Speaker for 
their collaboration over the past several months as they formed this 
plan.
  Let me say something that the American people know to be true, and 
that is that this House is a fixer-upper. Every time the American 
people feel like they don't have a say and nothing gets done, or every 
time a bill is written behind closed doors and passed without debate, 
the American people lose their faith in the ideal that formed this 
body, the idea that they have the ability to shape the outcome of what 
happens here.
  It is time to rebuild this institution so it lives up to the motto 
that serves as this Nation's motto that hangs in this room: E pluribus 
unum, out of many, one.
  Now, every 20 years or so, there has been an effort to reform and 
modernize this House. There has been an acknowledgment that like any 
other functional organization, it is worth diagnosing what is working 
and what isn't, and determining how to have it perform better.
  This committee that is established with today's vote will empower 
Members to help Congress to work better and to be more responsive to 
the American people, a Congress that will lead to the advancement of 
shared goals between the parties, and a reform system that allows the 
435 people lucky enough to work here to have meaningful outcomes to 
show for their work, to produce solutions.
  Look, we are on the cusp of a new era. We need to rise to the 
challenge by modernizing this legislative body so that we can fulfill 
the priorities of the Nation that elected each one of us to represent 
them. I truly believe that this select committee will help us chart a 
better course, one where consensus is not only sought but actually 
achieved, where we can finally make progress on our Nation's greatest 
challenges by developing proposals with broad bipartisan support and 
allowing them to move through regular order, looking at key issues like 
the use of technology, looking at how to cultivate leadership, and 
looking at operational changes to this body.
  I believe that modernizing this institution is the key to settling 
our diverse country's most pressing challenges and restoring the 
public's faith in Congress.
  Again, I commend Chairman McGovern and the Speaker for leading the 
way forward by establishing this committee. I also take a moment to 
thank some of the folks behind the scenes who have worked really hard 
to bring this plan to fruition, people like Don Sisson and the Rules 
Committee Democratic staff, and Jamie Fleet and the House 
Administration Committee Democratic staff, who spent countless hours 
working to bring us to today.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution so 
that this committee and Congress can finally get to work.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I have an additional speaker on the way, I 
hope, but, right now, I don't have anything additional to add 
personally.
  Madam Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Sarbanes), my good friend and a member of 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Oversight and 
Reform.


Mr. SARBANES. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Madam Speaker, I rise up in support of the rules package being put 
forward by the Democratic majority. In particular, I applaud the 
decision to establish a Select Committee on the Modernization of 
Congress, and I thank Chairman McGovern, Speaker Pelosi, and all those 
who made this a priority.
  We know that the best motives of Members on both sides of the aisle 
are too often frustrated by dysfunction in the legislative process, 
which then makes it difficult for us to deliver on the promises that we 
give to our constituents and to the Nation. Diminishing congressional 
resources and, at times, overly centralized decisionmaking have 
empowered outside interests in the legislative process, and those are 
interests who don't always have the public interest in mind.
  Of course, we know that modern-day campaigning demands are running 
Members ragged. We are increasingly unable to study the material and 
build the relationships necessary for a healthy legislative 
institution.
  We have a responsibility to the people to build a Congress that 
serves the people well. This is not something that is going to be easy, 
and it is not something that is going to happen until we make it 
happen. It will take work, but it is work that needs to be done.
  The challenges we face as an institution are not entirely new, as my 
colleague, Congressman Kilmer, just said. For much of modern 
congressional history, Congress has continuously wrestled with how to 
be more effective as the first branch of government.
  In the past, when the challenges grew, we have come together as a 
body to explore reforms to our rules and to institutional design, 
congressional capacity, and the matter of resources.
                              {time}  0930
  In 1945, in 1965, and again in 1992, Congress convened Joint 
Committees to study the functioning of Congress and to propose 
comprehensive, expert-guided reforms.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds.


Mr. SARBANES. Such a moment is before us again. It will be a 
challenge. After all, Congress is complicated and messy by design. 
Modernizing its operation is no simple task, but that is exactly the 
role that the proposed Select Committee can play. It can create a space 
for Members of Congress from across the ideological spectrum, 
representing different parts of the country, different world views and 
different backgrounds, to come together to work through the challenges 
and think through the remedies. It will be a place for experts, 
historians, and academics to present their views and help us wrestle 
with how to self-improve; and it will signal to the American people 
that we are earnest in our efforts to make Congress work better.
  I strongly support the rules package before us, and I look forward to 
the work of the Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.


Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on the resolution, 
and I yield the control of the remainder of my time to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. Lofgren), the distinguished chairwoman of the 
Committee on House Administration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from California will control 
the remaining time.


Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the creation of the Select 
Committee on the Modernization of Congress, and I encourage all of the 
House to do the same.
  There is precedent for Select Committees like this one. During 1973, 
in the 93rd Congress, the House created the Select Committee on 
Committees. And although the Select Committee's mission was to study 
the structure and operation of House committees, it ultimately made 
several recommendations
to improve House-wide administrative and technology functions.
  Among the improvements and modernization steps, the Select Committee 
suggested that the House form a Commission on Information and 
Facilities, tasked with responding to the growing number of issues 
Congress faced, but with limited access to information and analysis.
  The Commission also tackled the problem of growing staff needed to 
support an increased workload, but with limited physical space to 
accommodate them. The result was an installation of a system of 30 
computer terminals for Members of Congress and committees of 
legislative research.
  Now, this seems trivial now, especially when information is in our 
pockets, in our iPhones, but at the time it was revolutionary for the 
Congress to be able to get this information on its computers. This is 
just one example of how a Select Committee made Congress work better.
  Following the Select Committee came the election of the Class of 
1974. Fueled by the Watergate scandal, the new Members did much to 
change the Congress. They decentralized power. They invigorated our 
oversight responsibilities. They began a conversation that would change 
how we do business forever.
  For example, televising the floor proceedings; the 1976 Government in 
the Sunshine Act. The process they started opened up our democracy to 
the American people and created a lasting record for history.
  This Select Committee has a broad mandate to study how our Congress 
has changed and is changing. That begins with our changing workforce. 
We need to invest in our workforce, and that is why the proposal we 
passed in the rules package yesterday to create the Office of Diversity 
and Inclusion was so important. This Select Committee will be tasked 
with studying how we can better recruit, retain, and compensate our 
staff.
  We also must be responsible stewards of public money, and this Select 
Committee will help us minimize waste and maximize value in how we 
operate the House.
  Now, as has been mentioned, one of the virtues of the Select 
Committee is its composition. It will be composed of members of the 
House Administration Committee who have firsthand experience with the 
details of House administration. There will be members of the Rules 
Committee, experts in process and procedures who know what works and 
what doesn't when it comes to an efficient legislative process, and the 
Select Committee will feature Members in their first term who bring a 
new perspective and great energy to the House.
  Shortly after her election, my home State colleague from California, 
Representative Katie Porter said: ``Congress wasn't built for Members 
like me.'' And unfortunately, I think Katie is right. But we can change 
that, and we will change that. We can give the people's House back to 
the people.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, my additional speaker has not yet arrived, 
so I am prepared to close whenever my good friend is.


Ms. LOFGREN. Well, I do have an additional speaker. I yield 5 minutes 
to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Lipinski).


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.


Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of title II of 
H. Res. 6, which creates a Select Committee on the Modernization of 
Congress.
  Before I was elected to Congress, I was a political science 
professor. I studied and taught American Government, and my specialty 
was Congress. Whenever I was teaching a class on Congress, I would 
start by showing the old Schoolhouse Rock video ``I'm Just a Bill.'' In 
this video, Bill taught how a bill becomes a law. It was a great way of 
introducing, not just kids watching Saturday morning cartoons, but also 
teaching college students how a bill goes through the process in 
Congress to become a law. This was a 3-minute video from 40 years ago.
  Unfortunately, if the song was updated today, it would need to be 
much longer than 3 minutes, with the addition of many more verses that 
explained how difficult it is for a bill to become a law.
  Over the years, Congress has become increasingly dysfunctional. When 
I taught American Government, I would always point out that the 
Constitution established Congress in Article I, before the executive 
and judicial branches, because the drafters understood the critical 
importance of Congress leading in our representative democracy.
  Congressional dysfunction increasingly turns more power, however, 
over to the President and to the courts, which takes power away from 
the American people. So Congress needs reform so it can function as it 
was intended and return this power to the American people.
  Since 2016, I have introduced legislation with my friend and 
colleague, Mr. LaHood, to establish a Joint Committee on the 
Organization of Congress so we could have a mechanism to study and 
enact reform proposals to improve the operations of the House and 
Senate. I advocated for this committee because we need a forum for the 
holistic examination of the rules and procedures essential to effective 
legislating.
  We need to hold up a magnifying glass to Congress and to push for 
comprehensive reforms to make the institution more efficient, 
effective, and accountable to all Americans. We need to find new ways 
to empower all Members to participate in the legislative process, 
debate ideas, advance their ideas, and get laws enacted.
  As Ms. Lofgren talked about, through the history of Congress, we have 
had these committees that have brought important changes to the way 
that this body operates. With the start of this new 116th Congress, I 
am happy to see that this call for reform has been heeded with the 
inclusion in the resolution creating a Select Committee on the 
Modernization of Congress.
  While the Select Committee does not contain all the elements of the 
legislation we had introduced, notably, it doesn't include Senate 
reform; this is an important step forward that we can achieve today, 
immediately, through House rules. The Select Committee will be able to 
make recommendations on a wide range of issues affecting work in 
Congress, including procedural reform, leadership development, staff 
recruitment and retention, technology, innovation, and administration. 
And the committee gives both parties an equal say in the process of 
developing the package of reforms.
  I am grateful to my party's leadership, especially Speaker Pelosi and 
incoming Rules Committee Chairman McGovern, for making this a part of 
the House rules package for the 116th Congress.
  Madam Speaker, I look forward to continuing to work to restore public 
trust in this institution by making Congress more transparent and 
effective. And by doing this, we will return power to the American 
people, and we can have lawmaking just as explained by Bill in his 
Schoolhouse Rock video, with power going to the people through their 
representatives in the House.
  I ask my colleagues to support this resolution.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I again want to advise my friend I am 
prepared to close whenever she is.


Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  In closing, while I normally would stand here and be in opposition to 
what my good friends, Mr. Hastings, Mr. McGovern and Ms. Lofgren would 
be proposing, in this case I fully support the measure that they are 
bringing before us.
  The proposed Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress is a 
serious, well-intentioned proposal to create a bipartisan committee to 
produce a bipartisan product aimed at improving the way Congress 
functions now and into the future. And while this idea could have been 
improved if it incorporated the Senate and insured that both houses 
were working together on improving the overall institution, it is 
still, nonetheless, a very worthy endeavor.
  I, for one, thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and I 
think that this is an issue that they could and should support in a 
bipartisan fashion. Frankly, I want to thank my friends; having been on 
the losing side of every vote yesterday, it will be nice to be on the 
winning side today.
  So, Madam Speaker, I want to urge a ``yes'' vote on the underlying 
measure, and I yield back the balance of my time.


Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Congress is a creature of precedent, but we must never be captive to 
the old ways. The House, the people's body, must continually update and 
renew itself to meet the challenges facing the Nation and to respond to 
the needs of a new generation of representatives. This Select Committee 
on the Modernization of Congress is a way this Congress can identify 
and address the challenges of tomorrow, and will assist us in boldly 
meeting these challenges.
  The Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress is a way to 
deal with problems facing this body right now, today. The Select 
Committee is a way to make sure that my colleague, Katie Porter, works 
in a Congress built for her and all our new Members.
  It is long past time to chart a path forward and to address the 
problems we must face. I look forward to working with all the members 
of the Select Committee and congressional stakeholders in transforming 
the House for the better on a bipartisan basis.
  Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous 
question is ordered on the portion of the divided question comprising 
title II.
  The question is on that portion of the divided question.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
                          



Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution and ask for 
its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 22
       Resolved,
       Whereas, Walter B. Jones, a Representative-elect from the 
     Third District of the State of North Carolina, has been 
     unable from illness to appear in person to be sworn as a 
     Member of the House, and there being no contest or question 
     as to his election; Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Speaker, or deputy named by her, is 
     hereby authorized to administer the oath of office to the 
     Honorable Walter B. Jones at Farmville, North Carolina, and 
     that such oath be accepted and received by the House as the 
     oath of office of the Honorable Walter B. Jones.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          



Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Democratic Caucus, I 
offer a privileged resolution and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
                               H. Res. 24
       Resolved, That the following named Members be, and are 
     hereby, elected to the following standing committees of the 
     House of Representatives:
       (1) Committee on agriculture.--Mr. Peterson, Chair.
       (2) Committee on armed services.--Mr. Smith of Washington, 
     Chair.
       (3) Committee on education and labor.--Mr. Scott of 
     Virginia, Chair.
       (4) Committee on foreign affairs.--Mr. Engel, Chair.
       (5) Committee on homeland security.--Mr. Thompson of 
     Mississippi, Chair.
       (6) Committee on the judiciary.--Mr. Nadler, Chair.
       (7) Committee on natural resources.--Mr. Grijalva, Chair.
       (8) Committee on oversight and reform.--Mr. Cummings, 
     Chair.
       (9) Committee on rules.--Mr. Hastings, Mrs. Torres of 
     California, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Scanlon, Mr. Morelle, and Ms. 
     Shalala.
       (10) Committee on science, space, and technology.--Ms. 
     Johnson of Texas, Chair.
       (11) Committee on small business.--Ms. Velazquez, Chair.
       (12) Committee on transportation and infrastructure.--Mr. 
     DeFazio, Chair.
       (13) Committee on veterans' affairs.--Mr. Takano, Chair.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          



Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the House Republican 
Conference, I send to the desk a privileged resolution and ask for its 
immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows
                               H. Res. 25
       Resolved, That the following named Members be, and are 
     hereby, elected to the following committees of the House of 
     Representatives:
       Committee on Agriculture: Mr. Conaway.
       Committee on Armed Services: Mr. Thornberry.
       Committee on Education and Labor: Ms. Foxx of North 
     Carolina.
       Committee on Foreign Affairs: Mr. McCaul.
       Committee on Homeland Security: Mr. Rogers of Alabama.
       Committee on the Judiciary: Mr. Collins of Georgia.
       Committee on Natural Resources: Mr. Bishop of Utah.
       Committee on Oversight and Reform: Mr. Jordan.
       Committee on Rules: Mr. Cole, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Burgess, 
     Mrs. Lesko.
       Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Mr. Lucas.
       Committee on Small Business: Mr. Chabot.
       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Mr. Graves 
     of Missouri.
       Committee on Veterans' Affairs: Mr. David P. Roe of 
     Tennessee.
  Ms. CHENEY (during the reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
that the resolution be considered as read.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Wyoming?
  There was no objection.
  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                          



Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet on Tuesday, January 8, 2019, 
when it shall convene at noon for morning-hour debate and 2 p.m. for 
legislative business.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
                        


Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, the new Democratic majority in this House 
will not limit its response to mass shootings to just thoughts and 
prayers. We will listen to gun violence survivors, not gun company 
lobbyists. We finally will respond to the demands of more than 90 
percent of Americans who want stronger background checks.
  In the 9 years since the Supreme Court's disastrous decision in 
Citizens United, gun companies and other wealthy special interests have 
been able to dump unlimited money into our elections. In 2016, the NRA 
spent more than ever before and watched candidates they help elect 
ignore the gun violence crisis: nearly 40,000 Americans killed in 2017 
and horrific mass shootings in Las Vegas, Pittsburgh, Thousand Oaks, 
and Parkland.
  To release the grip of wealthy special interests on Congress, 
Democrats have introduced historic reforms as our top priority in H.R. 
1, to make it easier to vote, to get money out of politics, to end 
corruption, and to call for a constitutional amendment to overturn 
Citizens United.
  Mr. Speaker, no matter what the issue--climate change, healthcare, 
the economy, or gun violence--it is time for Congress to start working 
for the people. This week, that work has begun.
                        


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, yesterday's vote against commonsense border 
security is a sad commentary on the misguided priorities of the new 
majority in Congress.
  Instead of working in good faith to achieve a bipartisan compromise 
to end the partial government shutdown and address the very real crisis 
at our southern border, the new Democrat House leadership signaled that 
all they really want to do is to continue their fight with this 
President.
  By totally dismissing what career professionals at the Department of 
Homeland Security have said, that they actually need to impede the flow 
of criminals, gangs, human traffickers, and drug dealers into our 
country, the new leadership has signaled to the country that the new 
majority has been co-opted by the most extreme and hyperpartisan voices 
of the far left who are so far outside the mainstream and are so 
blinded by their animosity toward this President that they have become 
willing to place the interests of illegal immigrants ahead of the 
interests of the American people.
  They would rather turn a blind eye to lawlessness. They would rather 
compromise public safety and allow criminal gangs and drugs to flood 
across our borders than even negotiate with this President.
  In their meeting with the White House earlier this week, the 
Democrats refused to even listen to a briefing of the Secretary of the 
Department of Homeland Security about the threats we face from an 
unsecured border.
  This is a matter of national security. It is time for Congress to put 
the safety of the American people over open borders and political 
games.
                          



Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I move that the House do now adjourn.
  The motion was agreed to; accordingly (at 10 o'clock and 53 minutes 
a.m.), under its previous order, the House adjourned until Tuesday, 
January 8, 2019, at noon for morning-hour debate.
                        


Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is an honor to remember the 
selfless and inspirational life of Sifu Charles Lin.
  A lifetime master, Sifu Lin began studying the martial arts in his 
homeland of Taiwan.
  He studied under many masters of the martial arts, earning the title 
``Master'' or Sifu.
  Sifu Lin moved to New Mexico in 1974 at the age of 23, with only $200 
in his pocket.
  For more than 40 years, Sifu Lin taught New Mexicans meditation and 
self-defense through the martial arts of Ch'i Kung, Tai Chi, and Chuan 
Kung Fu at Lin's Martial Arts Academy.
  He and his wife also ran the Chinese Culture Center in Albuquerque, a 
place for the city's Chinese population to build community, learn 
Chinese language, and celebrate their culture.
  The fireworks, martial arts demonstrations, and dancing dragons in 
the center's annual Chinese New Year festival put Chinese culture on 
display.
  My thoughts are with his family during this time of mourning.
  The lessons Sifu Lin imparted on all of his students will not be 
forgotten.<bullet>
                        


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:
                                 S. 21
       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,
     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
       This Act may be cited as the ``Pay Our Coast Guard Act''.
     SEC. 2. CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE COAST GUARD.
       There are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the 
     Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for any period during 
     which interim or full-year appropriations for the Coast Guard 
     are not in effect--
       (1) such sums as are necessary to provide pay and 
     allowances to members of the Coast Guard (as described in 
     section 1 of title 14, United States Code), including the 
     reserve component thereof, who perform active service or 
     inactive-duty training during such period;
       (2) such sums as are necessary to provide pay and 
     allowances to civilian employees of the Coast Guard;
       (3) such sums as are necessary to provide pay and 
     allowances to contractors of the Coast Guard;
       (4) such sums as are necessary for--
       (A) the payment of a death gratuity under sections 1475-
     1477 and 1489 of title 10, United States Code, with respect 
     to members of the Coast Guard;
       (B) the payment or reimbursement of authorized funeral 
     travel and travel related to the dignified transfer of 
     remains and unit memorial services under section 481f of 
     title 37, United States Code, with respect to members of the 
     Coast Guard; and
       (C) the temporary continuation of a basic allowance of 
     housing for dependents of members of the Coast Guard dying on 
     active duty, as authorized by section 403(l) of title 37, 
     United States Code; and
       (5) such sums as are necessary to provide for Coast Guard 
     retired pay, including such payments as are described in the 
     provision regarding Coast Guard retired pay in title II of 
     division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act 2018 (P.L. 
     115-141; 132 Stat. 348).
     SEC. 3. TERMINATION.
       Appropriations and funds made available and authority 
     granted pursuant to this Act shall be available until 
     whichever of the following first occurs:
       (1) The enactment into law of an appropriation (including a 
     continuing appropriation) for any purpose for which amounts 
     are made available in section 2.
       (2) The enactment into law of the applicable regular or 
     continuing appropriations resolution or other Act without any 
     appropriation for such purpose.
                          



Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on December 19, as Congress was preparing 
to leave for the holidays, the Treasury Department notified Congress of 
its intent to terminate within 30 days a set of Russia sanctions 
imposed on En+ Group plc (``En+''), UC Rusal plc (``Rusal''), and JSC 
EuroSibEnergo (``ESE''). Each of these firms were sanctioned because 
they were owned or controlled by Oleg Deripaska, a notorious Russian 
oligarch and trusted agent of Vladimir Putin. As Treasury noted when it 
sanctioned him: ``Deripaska has been investigated for money laundering, 
and accused of threatening the lives of business rivals, illegally 
wiretapping a government official, and taking part in extortion and 
racketeering. There are also allegations that Deripaska bribed a 
government official, ordered the murder of a businessman, and had links 
to a Russian organized crime group.''
  In its notification letter, Treasury argued it had secured an 
agreement with Deripaska, the companies and other stakeholders involved 
to significantly restructure the companies and make corporate 
governance changes. Under the agreement, Deripaska will remain 
sanctioned, and his property will remain blocked. The Treasury 
Department proposes to remove the three firms, including the huge 
Russian aluminum producer Rusal, from the sanctions list in the belief 
that the agreement will effectively separate the companies from 
Deripaska, eliminating his control over them and sharply limiting his 
influence. The proposal also reportedly places limits on any family 
members of Deripaska who are also significant investors in the 
companies.
  I noted in December that Treasury's decision raises critical 
questions that the Administration must answer about whether the 
structural and governance changes made by these companies are 
sufficient to ensure that Deripaska is no longer directing or even 
influencing these firms. I have also said that it remains to be seen 
whether Treasury's approach can succeed in Putin's Russia. Serious 
questions remain about whether Treasury can monitor and enforce the 
agreement even with the monitoring mechanisms proposed.
  The timing of Treasury's notice compressed an already tight 30-day 
review timetable provided for in sanctions law, giving Congress until 
January 17 to make its own independent assessment of whether it 
adequately protects US economic and national security, especially with 
respect to Russia. The Congressional review provisions of CAATSA were 
designed for precisely this kind of circumstance. They were imposed by 
Congress after serious questions had arisen about President Trump's 
relationship with Russia. Members on both sides of the aisle wanted an 
opportunity to independently assess the Administration's actions to 
lift, terminate or issue licenses on Russia-related sanctions. Those 
questions still linger, and have become even more pronounced in recent 
days.
  The formal review process is underway. The Banking and Foreign 
Relations committees are assessing the terms of the agreement, and the 
documents that have been provided by Treasury. But time is short, and 
if we did not introduce a resolution today we would have been overtaken 
by events, since any resolution must be pending in committee for ten 
days before it is subject to discharge to the full Senate. So today I 
am introducing such a resolution. I do so not because I have concluded 
that Congress should act to disapprove this agreement--I have not made 
that determination yet--but to preserve the procedural option of moving 
to bring up such a resolution at the end of the review process, if 
necessary, for expedited review and a vote by the full Senate.
  I intend to consult with my colleagues on the Banking, Foreign 
Relations, and Intelligence Committees, and others, before making a 
judgment on whether to call for consideration, under expedited 
procedures provided for in CAATSA, of this disapproval resolution. I 
know my colleagues will carefully review the proposal, and I look 
forward to hearing their conclusions once that assessment is complete.
  I ask unanimous consent that the Treasury Department's report 
provided pursuant to section 216 of CAATSA be printed in the Record.
  Mr. PRESIDEN


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 
     the text of the bill be printed in the Record. There being no 
     objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be printed in 
     the Record, as follows:
                              S.J. Res. 2
       Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
     United States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress 
     disapproves of the action relating to the application of 
     sanctions imposed with respect to the Russian Federation 
     proposed by the President in the report submitted to Congress 
     under section 216(a)(1) of the Russia Sanctions Review Act of 
     2017 on December 19, 2018, relating to terminating sanctions 
     imposed on En+ Group plc (``En+''), UC Rusal plc (``Rusal''), 
     and JSC EuroSibEnergo (``ESE'').
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.
                          



Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor to pay my 
respects and to pay tribute to a fellow Iowan. This fellow Iowan served 
for 6 years right here in the U.S. Senate. In fact, the Iowan who 
brings me to the floor today is my predecessor, the Honorable John C. 
Culver.
  I was sorry to learn that Senator Culver passed away the day after 
Christmas. I have no doubt that his spirit of public service and his 
commitment to civic engagement will carry on for generations to come. I 
will come back to this legacy in just a moment.
  John and I had our differences, as he was a Democrat and I a 
Republican, but we shared a commitment to public service and to working 
to advance the interests of the people of the great State of Iowa. We 
both had the privilege of serving Iowans in both Houses of Congress. 
For a decade, John represented Iowa's Second District in the House of 
Representatives, from 1965 to 1975. I represented Iowa's Third District 
from 1975 to 1980. Then we both had the opportunity to represent the 
State of Iowa here in the U.S. Senate.
  John made the decision to pursue a life of public service early in 
his life. After graduating from Franklin High School in Cedar Rapids, 
Senator Culver headed east to Boston, MA. He earned his undergraduate 
degree in American Government from Harvard University. He also played 
fullback for the Crimson football team. He was brawny and had a big 
build. In fact, he was even drafted to the NFL, but John punted a 
career on the gridiron and answered the call to a different vocation, 
and that was to public service.
  First, he served for 3 years in the U.S. Marine Corps. Then, after 
earning his law degree from Harvard Law School, he returned home to 
Iowa and ran for public office.
  When Senator Culver was serving in the U.S. House of Representatives, 
I was serving in the Iowa statehouse. Although we shared a passion for 
public service, we didn't share the same space on the political 
spectrum, but our constituents expected their elected officeholders to 
bring Iowa integrity to that job.
  In politics, family is often a uniting factor. Senator Culver's son, 
Chet, served as the Governor of Iowa from 2007 to 2011. In fact, the 
last time I saw
John was at Governor Culver's inaugural ball. I had the chance to tell 
Senator Culver, ``I know how proud you are of your son.'' That is a 
feeling I know well, as my grandson is serving his seventh term in the 
Iowa House and serves as chairman of the Appropriations Committee--a 
committee I once chaired.
  Senator Culver and I then knew the importance of family and were 
fortunate to have family who value public service.
  When Senator Culver won election to the U.S. Senate in 1974, he won 
the seat left open with the retirement of another towering political 
figure in Iowa--the man from Ida Grove. That is also the title of a 
book about former Iowa Governor and U.S. Senator Harold Hughes.
  Here in the Senate, he served with his longtime friend and liberal 
lion, Senator Ted Kennedy. Senator Culver served on the following 
committees: Armed Services, Judiciary, Environment and Public Works, 
and Small Business.
  That brings me to another similarity Senator Culver and I share from 
our respective service in this institution--our assignments on the 
Senate Judiciary Committee and our interest in helping at-risk 
juveniles avoid a life of crime.
  Senator Culver chaired the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee to 
Investigate Juvenile Delinquency. He convened oversight hearings to 
examine the 1974 Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act, now 
widely known as the JJDPA.
  At a hearing in 1977, Senator Culver pointed out that in our State of 
Iowa, 8,400 juveniles were processed through the courts in 1965. Then, 
by 1974, at the time of these hearings and the passage of this 
legislation, the number had increased to 20,200--highlighting the need 
for reforms like those in the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act.
  John's leadership on the subcommittee helped make sure that this 
sweeping, new law, passed just 3 years before, worked to help keep 
young people on the right track and away from a life of crime. His 
focus on helping youth lead productive lives became a mission that he 
pursued long after he left the U.S. Senate.
  Four decades later, the JJDPA is as necessary as ever. Again, going 
back to statistics from Iowa, in 2015--50 years after the figure I gave 
you of about 8,000--Iowa had 14,837 violations of law by a minor that 
were adjudicated in our State.
  That same year, I held a congressional hearing to raise awareness 
about the need to reform and renew that law so it works effectively to 
help at-risk youth in the 21st century. The JJDPA had not been updated 
or reauthorized since 2002. As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I 
was pleased to champion a successful bipartisan, bicameral effort to 
update and reauthorize that act. The updates emphasize substance abuse 
and mental health services. These efforts helped at-risk young people 
obtain an education and, of course, accept more responsibility because 
it had stronger accountability measures to protect taxpayers and to 
better serve youth who come into contact with the juvenile justice 
system.
  Another part of Senator Culver's work was his work on the Commission 
that bore his name, the Culver Commission. He deserves great 
recognition for this. I am told the audit was the first of its kind to 
review the Senate's legislative and administrative operations. Senator 
Culver said the Senate needed ``a careful and probing study of the 
whole central nervous system of the Senate and its institutional well-
being.'' As the newly chosen Senate President pro tempore and as 
officer of the Congressional Accountability Act, I also want this 
institution to run as efficiently and effectively as possible for the 
American people.
  In 1980, Senator Culver and I faced off in an election for the U.S. 
Senate. He was a very formidable opponent and ran a very solid 
campaign. Ultimately, I won that election. While I am sure that wasn't 
the outcome Senator Culver wanted, John was very gracious. I will never 
forget his grace and good wishes after that 1980 election.
  After his departure from the Senate, Senator Culver continued an 
extraordinary career, practicing law until 2009. He was a gifted 
athlete and a gifted public speaker. He became an author, a guest 
lecturer, and a visiting professor, carving an extra-wide path with 
extra-broad shoulders to inspire generations of young Americans to 
engage in civic life, in service, and in politics. His list of 
achievements and awards reflect a tireless devotion to public service 
and to country.
  Since 1975, he served on the Senior Advisory Committee of the 
Institute of Politics at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of 
Government.
  In 2013, he became chair emeritus. In 2012, Harvard's John F. Kennedy 
School of Government created the John C. Culver Scholarship. In 2008, 
Senator Culver was presented with the Norman E. Borlaug Lifetime 
Achievement Award for Public Service. In 2010, he was presented with 
the Congressional Joint Leadership Foundation's Leadership Award for 
his work encouraging young Americans.
  He received six honorary degrees. In 2010, Simpson College in 
Indianola, IA, partnered with Senator Culver to launch the John C. 
Culver Public Policy Center. The nonpartisan policy institute is 
designed to educate and to inspire participation in our democracy. It 
seeks to encourage young people to consider public service as their 
life's work.
  John's life reminds all of us that a life spent in the service of 
others is a life well-lived. John's tireless efforts to serve his 
country and the people of Iowa will be long remembered and serve as an 
example to all who honor his memory.
  Barbara and I extend our deepest condolences to the entire Culver 
family. May God bless them in their time of bereavement, and may God 
bless Senator Culver.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                          



Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, as we near the third week of the Trump 
shutdown, the impacts on the American people are getting worse with 
each passing day. Nearly 400,000 Federal workers have now been 
furloughed. Food safety inspectors, vital to our health and safety, are 
working without pay and with limited resources. American farmers can't 
get loans from the USDA. Working families trying to buy a home are 
finding out their FHA loans are on hold.
  I just heard from a constituent of mine in the capital region, near 
Albany--a fire police dispatcher, whose wife is pregnant. They closed 
on their first house, joyously, last week. But now their loan is 
delayed until the government reopens. That story can be repeated over 
and over again.
  Our Federal courts are running out of money. Our national parks are 
suffering; we have seen the piles of debris and garbage in these 
beautiful places. Maybe most ironically of all, as the President is 
talking about making the border more secure, his shutdown is making it 
less secure. Border Patrol agents are going without pay. E-Verify is 
offline. Immigration cases are on hold. New immigration judges are not 
being hired. So with all the talk that the President has about making 
the border more secure, the Trump shutdown is making it less secure.
  We have provided a way for him to continue to debate this wall issue 
but keep the government open. All of this means that we should be doing 
everything we can to bring this Trump shutdown to a swift end.
  My friend, the Republican leader, quoted me this morning. So let me 
now quote my friend, the leader. He has said repeatedly: ``Nobody likes 
a shutdown.''
  Leader McConnell has shown himself to be an adept negotiator during 
previous shutdowns. Why is he abdicating his responsibility now? Why is 
Leader McConnell shuffling off to the sidelines, pointing his fingers 
at everybody else, and saying that he will not be involved? Probably 
because he realizes this President--President Trump--is erratic, 
unreliable, and sometimes even irrational. In sum, President Trump is a 
terrible negotiator.
  Given the unfortunate traits that reside in our President, I 
understand Leader McConnell's reluctance to get involved. But in truth, 
they are all the more reason for him to get involved. America needs 
Leader McConnell to get involved to stop this shutdown. He can't keep 
ducking this issue.
  Left to his own devices, President Trump can keep the government shut 
down for a long time. The President needs intervention, and Leader 
McConnell and Senate Republicans are just the right ones to intervene.
  Fortunately, we have a way to end this shutdown with the help of our 
Republican friends in the Senate. Last night, as expected, the House of 
Representatives passed two pieces of legislation to end the Trump 
shutdown--a six-bill package to provide appropriations for eight 
shuttered Cabinet Departments and a 30-day continuing resolution for 
the Department of Homeland Security. Both bills received bipartisan 
support in the House.
  The logic behind those two pieces of legislation is very simple. We 
have disagreements on how to best secure the border. President Trump 
wants an expensive and ineffective border wall. He promised that Mexico 
would pay for it but now demands that American taxpayers should foot 
the bill.
  Democrats believe that a border wall is an obtuse public policy and 
that we have much better, more effective, less wasteful ways of 
securing the border.
  We don't have to have eight unrelated Cabinet Departments closed 
while we sort out our differences. We can reopen the 25 percent of the 
government now closed and continue to debate our border security. That 
is why we split the bills in two--one to reopen the government and 
another to keep DHS running short term while discussions continue about 
the border.
  Neither piece of legislation should be controversial, and the House 
majority--I give them credit and Leader Pelosi credit--went out of its 
way to avoid controversy. They didn't send over a bill with lots of 
poison pill riders, lots of things our colleagues here wouldn't like. 
They sent the very bills that Republicans crafted and voted for. The 
majority went out of its way to avoid controversy by choosing the 
legislation crafted and supported by Republicans.
  Let me emphasize that. The six appropriations bills passed by the 
House last night are the same bills--the very same bills; they have not 
changed a bit--that Republicans here in the Senate drafted--they were 
in charge--and approved. Four of them passed this Chamber by more than 
90 votes, and the other two passed nearly unanimously in committee. 
Leader McConnell voted for every one of them and spoke glowingly about 
their passage last year.
  So there is nothing--I repeat, nothing--in the six appropriations 
bills that Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans oppose. There is 
nothing--absolutely nothing, I repeat--about a continuing resolution 
for Homeland Security that now Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans 
refuse to put on the floor--because that was Leader McConnell's idea. 
He put it on the floor, and it passed the Chamber unanimously last 
Christmas.
  Now we are seeing some real cracks in the Republican wall. Some of my 
friends in the Senate on the other side of the aisle in this body, to 
their credit, are already saying that we should take up and pass these 
two bills. Seven House Republicans, newly elected, under huge pressure 
not to, voted with these bills. Every Democrat voted for the bill; 
there is no dissension there. But a handful of Republicans did too.
  It is time for Leader McConnell and President Trump, who is the 
ultimate reason we have this shutdown--it is time for Leader McConnell 
and President Trump to support this package of bipartisan legislation 
and reopen the government.
  In a short time, Speaker Pelosi and I will head to the White House to 
meet with President Trump and congressional leaders about the 
government shutdown. I will be joined by my very
able colleague, Senator Durbin. Senator McConnell will be joined by 
Senator Thune. Speaker Pelosi will be joined by Leader Hoyer and, of 
course, Leaders McCarthy and Scalise will be there as well.
  At the meeting, we Democrats hope to convince the President and 
Leader McConnell to take up and pass the two House-passed bills, both 
of which have already been approved by Senate Republicans. That is the 
quickest, least controversial way out of the Trump shutdown. It 
separates the fight on the wall from the government shutdown.
  President Trump is holding hostage, using as leverage, hundreds of 
thousands of Federal workers and millions and millions of other 
Americans, like the gentleman and his spouse in Albany, who can't get 
their FHA mortgage approved. That story, in many ways, can be repeated 
over and over again.
  So I say to my Republican friends: Don't let President Trump hold 
hostage all of these fine people who have done nothing wrong 
themselves. Don't let him use the government shutdown to try and get 
his way. That is not how it should work, and that is not what is going 
to happen.
  Instead, let's reopen the government, start paying our food safety 
inspectors, park Rangers, air traffic controllers, Federal courts, and 
our Border Patrol agents, so they can do the work they are supposed to 
do for the American people. All we have to do is take up legislation 
that Senate Republicans already support.
  I yield the floor.
                          



Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until 3 p.m., Tuesday, 
January 8; further, that following the prayer and pledge, the morning 
hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, 
the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the 
day, and morning business be closed; further, that following leader 
remarks, the Senate resume consideration of the motion to proceed to S. 
1; finally, that notwithstanding the provisions of rule XXII, the 
cloture motion filed during today's session ripen at 5:30 p.m., 
Tuesday, January 8.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
                        


